<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>A Broadway Pageant</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="a-broadway-pageant" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Broadway Pageant</h2>
			<article id="a-broadway-pageant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<section id="a-broadway-pageant-1" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Over the Western sea hither from Niphon come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Courteous, the swart-cheek’d two-sworded envoys,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leaning back in their open barouches, bare-headed, impassive,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ride to-day through Manhattan.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Libertad! I do not know whether others behold what I behold,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the procession along with the nobles of Niphon, the errand-bearers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bringing up the rear, hovering above, around, or in the ranks marching,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But I will sing you a song of what I behold Libertad.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When million-footed Manhattan unpent descends to her pavements,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the thunder-cracking guns arouse me with the proud roar I love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the round-mouth’d guns out of the smoke and smell I love spit their salutes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the fire-flashing guns have fully alerted me, and heaven-clouds canopy my city with a delicate thin haze,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When gorgeous the countless straight stems, the forests at the wharves, thicken with colors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When every ship richly drest carries her flag at the peak,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When pennants trail and street-festoons hang from the windows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When Broadway is entirely given up to foot-passengers and foot-standers, when the mass is densest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the façades of the houses are alive with people, when eyes gaze riveted tens of thousands at a time,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the guests from the islands advance, when the pageant moves forward visible,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the summons is made, when the answer that waited thousands of years answers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I too arising, answering, descend to the pavements, merge with the crowd, and gaze with them.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-broadway-pageant-2" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Superb-faced Manhattan!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Comrade Americanos! to us, then at last the Orient comes.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To us, my city,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where our tall-topt marble and iron beauties range on opposite sides, to walk in the space between,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To-day our Antipodes comes.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The Originatress comes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The nest of languages, the bequeather of poems, the race of eld,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Florid with blood, pensive, rapt with musings, hot with passion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sultry with perfume, with ample and flowing garments,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With sunburnt visage, with intense soul and glittering eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The race of Brahma comes.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>See my cantabile! these and more are flashing to us from the procession,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As it moves changing, a kaleidoscope divine it moves changing before us.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>For not the envoys nor the tann’d Japanee from his island only,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lithe and silent the Hindoo appears, the Asiatic continent itself appears, the past, the dead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The murky night-morning of wonder and fable inscrutable,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The envelop’d mysteries, the old and unknown hive-bees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The north, the sweltering south, eastern Assyria, the Hebrews, the ancient of ancients,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Vast desolated cities, the gliding present, all of these and more are in the pageant-procession.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Geography, the world, is in it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Great Sea, the brood of islands, Polynesia, the coast beyond,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The coast you henceforth are facing—you Libertad! from your Western golden shores,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The countries there with their populations, the millions en-masse are curiously here,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The swarming market-places, the temples with idols ranged along the sides or at the end, bonze, brahmin, and llama,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mandarin, farmer, merchant, mechanic, and fisherman,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The singing-girl and the dancing-girl, the ecstatic persons, the secluded emperors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Confucius himself, the great poets and heroes, the warriors, the castes, all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Trooping up, crowding from all directions, from the Altay mountains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From Thibet, from the four winding and far-flowing rivers of China,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the southern peninsulas and the demi-continental islands, from Malaysia,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These and whatever belongs to them palpable show forth to me, and are seiz’d by me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I am seiz’d by them, and friendlily held by them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Till as here them all I chant, Libertad! for themselves and for you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>For I too raising my voice join the ranks of this pageant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am the chanter, I chant aloud over the pageant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I chant the world on my Western sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I chant copious the islands beyond, thick as stars in the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I chant the new empire grander than any before, as in a vision it comes to me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I chant America the mistress, I chant a greater supremacy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I chant projected a thousand blooming cities yet in time on those groups of sea-islands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My sail-ships and steam-ships threading the archipelagoes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My stars and stripes fluttering in the wind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Commerce opening, the sleep of ages having done its work, races reborn, refresh’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lives, works resumed—the object I know not—but the old, the Asiatic renew’d as it must be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Commencing from this day surrounded by the world.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-broadway-pageant-3" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
					<p>
						<span>And you Libertad of the world!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You shall sit in the middle well-pois’d thousands and thousands of years,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As to-day from one side the nobles of Asia come to you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As to-morrow from the other side the queen of England sends her eldest son to you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The sign is reversing, the orb is enclosed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ring is circled, the journey is done,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The box-lid is but perceptibly open’d, nevertheless the perfume pours copiously out of the whole box.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Young Libertad! with the venerable Asia, the all-mother,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Be considerate with her now and ever hot Libertad, for you are all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bend your proud neck to the long-off mother now sending messages over the archipelagoes to you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bend your proud neck low for once, young Libertad.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Were the children straying westward so long? so wide the tramping?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were the precedent dim ages debouching westward from Paradise so long?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were the centuries steadily footing it that way, all the while unknown, for you, for reasons?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>They are justified, they are accomplish’d, they shall now be turn’d the other way also, to travel toward you thence,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They shall now also march obediently eastward for your sake Libertad.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
