<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>A Song of the Rolling Earth</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="a-song-of-the-rolling-earth" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Song of the Rolling Earth</h2>
			<article id="a-song-of-the-rolling-earth-article" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<section id="a-song-of-the-rolling-earth-1" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A song of the rolling earth, and of words according,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Were you thinking that those were the words, those upright lines? those curves, angles, dots?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No, those are not the words, the substantial words are in the ground and sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They are in the air, they are in you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Were you thinking that those were the words, those delicious sounds out of your friends’ mouths?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No, the real words are more delicious than they.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Human bodies are words, myriads of words,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(In the best poems re-appears the body, man’s or woman’s, well-shaped, natural, gay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Every part able, active, receptive, without shame or the need of shame.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Air, soil, water, fire⁠—those are words,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I myself am a word with them⁠—my qualities interpenetrate with theirs⁠—my name is nothing to them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though it were told in the three thousand languages, what would air, soil, water, fire, know of my name?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A healthy presence, a friendly or commanding gesture, are words, sayings, meanings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The charms that go with the mere looks of some men and women, are sayings and meanings also.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The workmanship of souls is by those inaudible words of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The masters know the earth’s words and use them more than audible words.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Amelioration is one of the earth’s words,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The earth neither lags nor hastens,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It has all attributes, growths, effects, latent in itself from the jump,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is not half beautiful only, defects and excrescences show just as much as perfections show.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The earth does not withhold, it is generous enough,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The truths of the earth continually wait, they are not so conceal’d either,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They are calm, subtle, untransmissible by print,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They are imbued through all things conveying themselves willingly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Conveying a sentiment and invitation, I utter and utter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I speak not, yet if you hear me not of what avail am I to you?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To bear, to better, lacking these of what avail am I?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(Accouche! accouchez!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will you rot your own fruit in yourself there?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will you squat and stifle there?)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The earth does not argue,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is not pathetic, has no arrangements,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Does not scream, haste, persuade, threaten, promise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Makes no discriminations, has no conceivable failures,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Closes nothing, refuses nothing, shuts none out,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all the powers, objects, states, it notifies, shuts none out.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The earth does not exhibit itself nor refuse to exhibit itself, possesses still underneath,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Underneath the ostensible sounds, the august chorus of heroes, the wail of slaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Persuasions of lovers, curses, gasps of the dying, laughter of young people, accents of bargainers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Underneath these possessing words that never fail.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To her children the words of the eloquent dumb great mother never fail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The true words do not fail, for motion does not fail and reflection does not fail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Also the day and night do not fail, and the voyage we pursue does not fail.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Of the interminable sisters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the ceaseless cotillons of sisters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the centripetal and centrifugal sisters, the elder and younger sisters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The beautiful sister we know dances on with the rest.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>With her ample back towards every beholder,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the fascinations of youth and the equal fascinations of age,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sits she whom I too love like the rest, sits undisturb’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Holding up in her hand what has the character of a mirror, while her eyes glance back from it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Glance as she sits, inviting none, denying none,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Holding a mirror day and night tirelessly before her own face.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Seen at hand or seen at a distance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Duly the twenty-four appear in public every day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Duly approach and pass with their companions or a companion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Looking from no countenances of their own, but from the countenances of those who are with them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the countenances of children or women or the manly countenance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the open countenances of animals or from inanimate things,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the landscape or waters or from the exquisite apparition of the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From our countenances, mine and yours, faithfully returning them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Every day in public appearing without fail, but never twice with the same companions.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Embracing man, embracing all, proceed the three hundred and sixty-five resistlessly round the sun;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Embracing all, soothing, supporting, follow close three hundred and sixty-five offsets of the first, sure and necessary as they.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Tumbling on steadily, nothing dreading,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sunshine, storm, cold, heat, forever withstanding, passing, carrying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The soul’s realization and determination still inheriting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fluid vacuum around and ahead still entering and dividing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No balk retarding, no anchor anchoring, on no rock striking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swift, glad, content, unbereav’d, nothing losing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all able and ready at any time to give strict account,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The divine ship sails the divine sea.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-song-of-the-rolling-earth-2" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Whoever you are! motion and reflection are especially for you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The divine ship sails the divine sea for you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Whoever you are! you are he or she for whom the earth is solid and liquid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You are he or she for whom the sun and moon hang in the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For none more than you are the present and the past,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For none more than you is immortality.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Each man to himself and each woman to herself, is the word of the past and present, and the true word of immortality;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No one can acquire for another⁠—not one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not one can grow for another⁠—not one.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The song is to the singer, and comes back most to him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The teaching is to the teacher, and comes back most to him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The murder is to the murderer, and comes back most to him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The theft is to the thief, and comes back most to him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The love is to the lover, and comes back most to him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gift is to the giver, and comes back most to him⁠—it cannot fail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The oration is to the orator, the acting is to the actor and actress not to the audience,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And no man understands any greatness or goodness but his own, or the indication of his own.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-song-of-the-rolling-earth-3" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I swear the earth shall surely be complete to him or her who shall be complete,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The earth remains jagged and broken only to him or her who remains jagged and broken.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear there is no greatness or power that does not emulate those of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There can be no theory of any account unless it corroborate the theory of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No politics, song, religion, behavior, or what not, is of account, unless it compare with the amplitude of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unless it face the exactness, vitality, impartiality, rectitude of the earth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear I begin to see love with sweeter spasms than that which responds love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is that which contains itself, which never invites and never refuses.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear I begin to see little or nothing in audible words,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All merges toward the presentation of the unspoken meanings of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Toward him who sings the songs of the body and of the truths of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Toward him who makes the dictionaries of words that print cannot touch.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear I see what is better than to tell the best,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is always to leave the best untold.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>When I undertake to tell the best I find I cannot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My tongue is ineffectual on its pivots,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My breath will not be obedient to its organs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I become a dumb man.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The best of the earth cannot be told anyhow, all or any is best,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is not what you anticipated, it is cheaper, easier, nearer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Things are not dismiss’d from the places they held before,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The earth is just as positive and direct as it was before,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Facts, religions, improvements, politics, trades, are as real as before,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the soul is also real, it too is positive and direct,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No reasoning, no proof has establish’d it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Undeniable growth has establish’d it.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="a-song-of-the-rolling-earth-4" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
					<p>
						<span>These to echo the tones of souls and the phrases of souls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(If they did not echo the phrases of souls what were they then?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If they had not reference to you in especial what were they then?)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear I will never henceforth have to do with the faith that tells the best,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will have to do only with that faith that leaves the best untold.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Say on, sayers! sing on, singers!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Delve! mould! pile the words of the earth!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Work on, age after age, nothing is to be lost,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It may have to wait long, but it will certainly come in use,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When the materials are all prepared and ready, the architects shall appear.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear to you the architects shall appear without fail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I swear to you they will understand you and justify you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The greatest among them shall be he who best knows you, and encloses all and is faithful to all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He and the rest shall not forget you, they shall perceive that you are not an iota less than they,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You shall be fully glorified in them.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="youth-day-old-age-and-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Youth, Day, Old Age and Night</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Youth, large, lusty, loving⁠—youth full of grace, force, fascination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you know that Old Age may come after you with equal grace, force, fascination?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Day full-blown and splendid⁠—day of the immense sun, action, ambition, laughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Night follows close with millions of suns, and sleep and restoring darkness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
