<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>A Song of Joys</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="a-song-of-joys" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Song of Joys</h2>
			<article id="a-song-of-joys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<p>
					<span>O to make the most jubilant song!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of music⁠—full of manhood, womanhood, infancy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of common employments⁠—full of grain and trees.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O for the voices of animals⁠—O for the swiftness and balance of fishes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O for the dropping of raindrops in a song!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O for the sunshine and motion of waves in a song!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the joy of my spirit⁠—it is uncaged⁠—it darts like lightning!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is not enough to have this globe or a certain time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will have thousands of globes and all time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the engineer’s joys! to go with a locomotive!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear the hiss of steam, the merry shriek, the steam-whistle, the laughing locomotive!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To push with resistless way and speed off in the distance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the gleesome saunter over fields and hillsides!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leaves and flowers of the commonest weeds, the moist fresh stillness of the woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The exquisite smell of the earth at daybreak, and all through the forenoon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the horseman’s and horsewoman’s joys!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The saddle, the gallop, the pressure upon the seat, the cool gurgling by the ears and hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the fireman’s joys!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear the alarm at dead of night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear bells, shouts! I pass the crowd, I run!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sight of the flames maddens me with pleasure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the joy of the strong-brawn’d fighter, towering in the arena in perfect condition, conscious of power, thirsting to meet his opponent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the joy of that vast elemental sympathy which only the human soul is capable of generating and emitting in steady and limitless floods.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the mother’s joys!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The watching, the endurance, the precious love, the anguish, the patiently yielded life.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the joy of increase, growth, recuperation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The joy of soothing and pacifying, the joy of concord and harmony.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to go back to the place where I was born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear the birds sing once more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ramble about the house and barn and over the fields once more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the orchard and along the old lanes once more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to have been brought up on bays, lagoons, creeks, or along the coast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To continue and be employ’d there all my life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The briny and damp smell, the shore, the salt weeds exposed at low water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The work of fishermen, the work of the eel-fisher and clam-fisher;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I come with my clam-rake and spade, I come with my eel-spear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the tide out? I join the group of clam-diggers on the flats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I laugh and work with them, I joke at my work like a mettlesome young man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In winter I take my eel-basket and eel-spear and travel out on foot on the ice⁠—I have a small axe to cut holes in the ice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold me well-clothed going gayly or returning in the afternoon, my brood of tough boys accompanying me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brood of grown and part-grown boys, who love to be with no one else so well as they love to be with me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By day to work with me, and by night to sleep with me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Another time in warm weather out in a boat, to lift the lobster-pots where they are sunk with heavy stones, (I know the buoys,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the sweetness of the Fifth-month morning upon the water as I row just before sunrise toward the buoys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pull the wicker pots up slantingly, the dark green lobsters are desperate with their claws as I take them out, I insert wooden pegs in the joints of their pincers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I go to all the places one after another, and then row back to the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in a huge kettle of boiling water the lobsters shall be boil’d till their color becomes scarlet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Another time mackerel-taking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Voracious, mad for the hook, near the surface, they seem to fill the water for miles;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another time fishing for rock-fish in Chesapeake Bay, I one of the brown-faced crew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another time trailing for blue-fish off Paumanok, I stand with braced body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My left foot is on the gunwale, my right arm throws far out the coils of slender rope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sight around me the quick veering and darting of fifty skiffs, my companions.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O boating on the rivers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voyage down the St. Lawrence, the superb scenery, the steamers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ships sailing, the Thousand Islands, the occasional timber-raft and the raftsmen with long-reaching sweep-oars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little huts on the rafts, and the stream of smoke when they cook supper at evening.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(O something pernicious and dread!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something far away from a puny and pious life!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something unproved! something in a trance!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something escaped from the anchorage and driving free.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to work in mines, or forging iron,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foundry casting, the foundry itself, the rude high roof, the ample and shadow’d space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The furnace, the hot liquid pour’d out and running.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to resume the joys of the soldier!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feel the presence of a brave commanding officer⁠—to feel his sympathy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To behold his calmness⁠—to be warm’d in the rays of his smile!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To go to battle⁠—to hear the bugles play and the drums beat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear the crash of artillery⁠—to see the glittering of the bayonets and musket-barrels in the sun!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see men fall and die and not complain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To taste the savage taste of blood⁠—to be so devilish!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gloat so over the wounds and deaths of the enemy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the whaleman’s joys! O I cruise my old cruise again!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel the ship’s motion under me, I feel the Atlantic breezes fanning me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear the cry again sent down from the mast-head, <q>There⁠—she blows!</q></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again I spring up the rigging to look with the rest⁠—we descend, wild with excitement,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I leap in the lower’d boat, we row toward our prey where he lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We approach stealthy and silent, I see the mountainous mass, lethargic, basking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the harpooner standing up, I see the weapon dart from his vigorous arm;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O swift again far out in the ocean the wounded whale, settling, running to windward, tows me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again I see him rise to breathe, we row close again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see a lance driven through his side, press’d deep, turn’d in the wound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again we back off, I see him settle again, the life is leaving him fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he rises he spouts blood, I see him swim in circles narrower and narrower, swiftly cutting the water⁠—I see him die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gives one convulsive leap in the centre of the circle, and then falls flat and still in the bloody foam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the old manhood of me, my noblest joy of all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My children and grand-children, my white hair and beard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My largeness, calmness, majesty, out of the long stretch of my life.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O ripen’d joy of womanhood! O happiness at last!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am more than eighty years of age, I am the most venerable mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How clear is my mind⁠—how all people draw nigh to me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What attractions are these beyond any before? what bloom more than the bloom of youth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What beauty is this that descends upon me and rises out of me?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the orator’s joys!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To inflate the chest, to roll the thunder of the voice out from the ribs and throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make the people rage, weep, hate, desire, with yourself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lead America⁠—to quell America with a great tongue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the joy of my soul leaning pois’d on itself, receiving identity through materials and loving them, observing characters and absorbing them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul vibrated back to me from them, from sight, hearing, touch, reason, articulation, comparison, memory, and the like,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The real life of my senses and flesh transcending my senses and flesh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My body done with materials, my sight done with my material eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proved to me this day beyond cavil that it is not my material eyes which finally see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor my material body which finally loves, walks, laughs, shouts, embraces, procreates.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the farmer’s joys!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ohioan’s, Illinoisian’s, Wisconsinese’, Kanadian’s, Iowan’s, Kansian’s, Missourian’s, Oregonese’ joys!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To rise at peep of day and pass forth nimbly to work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To plough land in the fall for winter-sown crops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To plough land in the spring for maize,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To train orchards, to graft the trees, to gather apples in the fall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to bathe in the swimming-bath, or in a good place along shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To splash the water! to walk ankle-deep, or race naked along the shore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to realize space!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plenteousness of all, that there are no bounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To emerge and be of the sky, of the sun and moon and flying clouds, as one with them.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O the joy of a manly self-hood!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be servile to none, to defer to none, not to any tyrant known or unknown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To walk with erect carriage, a step springy and elastic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To look with calm gaze or with a flashing eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To speak with a full and sonorous voice out of a broad chest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To confront with your personality all the other personalities of the earth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Know’st thou the excellent joys of youth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joys of the dear companions and of the merry word and laughing face?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy of the glad light-beaming day, joy of the wide-breath’d games?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy of sweet music, joy of the lighted ball-room and the dancers?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy of the plenteous dinner, strong carouse and drinking?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet O my soul supreme!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know’st thou the joys of pensive thought?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joys of the free and lonesome heart, the tender, gloomy heart?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joys of the solitary walk, the spirit bow’d yet proud, the suffering and the struggle?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The agonistic throes, the ecstasies, joys of the solemn musings day or night?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joys of the thought of Death, the great spheres Time and Space?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prophetic joys of better, loftier love’s ideals, the divine wife, the sweet, eternal, perfect comrade?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joys all thine own undying one, joys worthy thee O soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O while I live to be the ruler of life, not a slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet life as a powerful conqueror,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No fumes, no ennui, no more complaints or scornful criticisms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To these proud laws of the air, the water and the ground, proving my interior soul impregnable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nothing exterior shall ever take command of me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For not life’s joys alone I sing, repeating⁠—the joy of death!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beautiful touch of Death, soothing and benumbing a few moments, for reasons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself discharging my excrementitious body to be burn’d, or render’d to powder, or buried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My real body doubtless left to me for other spheres,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My voided body nothing more to me, returning to the purifications, further offices, eternal uses of the earth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to attract by more than attraction!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How it is I know not⁠—yet behold! the something which obeys none of the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is offensive, never defensive⁠—yet how magnetic it draws.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to struggle against great odds, to meet enemies undaunted!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be entirely alone with them, to find how much one can stand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To look strife, torture, prison, popular odium, face to face!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mount the scaffold, to advance to the muzzles of guns with perfect nonchalance!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be indeed a God!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to sail to sea in a ship!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave this steady unendurable land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave the tiresome sameness of the streets, the sidewalks and the houses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave you O you solid motionless land, and entering a ship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sail and sail and sail!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O to have life henceforth a poem of new joys!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dance, clap hands, exult, shout, skip, leap, roll on, float on!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a sailor of the world bound for all ports,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ship itself, (see indeed these sails I spread to the sun and air,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A swift and swelling ship full of rich words, full of joys.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
