<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Birds of Passage</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="birds-of-passage" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Birds of Passage</h2>
			<article id="song-of-the-universal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Song of the Universal</h3>
				<section id="song-of-the-universal-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Come said the Muse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sing me a song no poet yet has chanted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sing me the universal.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In this broad earth of ours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amid the measureless grossness and the slag,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Enclosed and safe within its central heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nestles the seed perfection.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>By every life a share or more or less,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>None born but it is born, conceal’d or unconceal’d the seed is waiting.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-universal-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Lo! keen-eyed towering science,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As from tall peaks the modern overlooking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Successive absolute fiats issuing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Yet again, lo! the soul, above all science,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For it has history gather’d like husks around the globe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For it the entire star-myriads roll through the sky.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In spiral routes by long detours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(As a much-tacking ship upon the sea,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For it the partial to the permanent flowing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For it the real to the ideal tends.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>For it the mystic evolution,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not the right only justified, what we call evil also justified.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Forth from their masks, no matter what,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the huge festering trunk, from craft and guile and tears,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Health to emerge and joy, joy universal.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Out of the bulk, the morbid and the shallow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of the bad majority, the varied countless frauds of men and states,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Electric, antiseptic yet, cleaving, suffusing all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only the good is universal.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-universal-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Over the mountain-growths disease and sorrow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An uncaught bird is ever hovering, hovering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>High in the purer, happier air.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From imperfection’s murkiest cloud,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Darts always forth one ray of perfect light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One flash of heaven’s glory.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To fashion’s, custom’s discord,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the mad Babel-din, the deafening orgies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Soothing each lull a strain is heard, just heard,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From some far shore the final chorus sounding.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O the blest eyes, the happy hearts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That see, that know the guiding thread so fine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Along the mighty labyrinth.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-universal-4" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">4</h4>
					<p>
						<span>And thou America,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the scheme’s culmination, its thought and its reality,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For these (not for thyself) thou hast arrived.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Thou too surroundest all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Embracing carrying welcoming all, thou too by pathways broad and new,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the ideal tendest.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The measur’d faiths of other lands, the grandeurs of the past,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are not for thee, but grandeurs of thine own,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deific faiths and amplitudes, absorbing, comprehending all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All eligible to all.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>All, all for immortality,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love like the light silently wrapping all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nature’s amelioration blessing all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The blossoms, fruits of ages, orchards divine and certain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forms, objects, growths, humanities, to spiritual images ripening.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Give me O God to sing that thought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me, give him or her I love this quenchless faith,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Thy ensemble, whatever else withheld withhold not from us,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Belief in plan of Thee enclosed in Time and Space,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Health, peace, salvation universal.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Is it a dream?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay but the lack of it the dream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And failing it life’s lore and wealth a dream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all the world a dream.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="pioneers-o-pioneers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Pioneers! O Pioneers!</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Come my tan-faced children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Follow well in order, get your weapons ready,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you your pistols? have you your sharp-edged axes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">For we cannot tarry here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We must march my darlings, we must bear the brunt of danger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We the youthful sinewy races, all the rest on us depend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O you youths, Western youths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So impatient, full of action, full of manly pride and friendship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plain I see you Western youths, see you tramping with the foremost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Have the elder races halted?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do they droop and end their lesson, wearied over there beyond the seas?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We take up the task eternal, and the burden and the lesson,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">All the past we leave behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We debouch upon a newer mightier world, varied world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fresh and strong the world we seize, world of labor and the march,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">We detachments steady throwing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down the edges, through the passes, up the mountains steep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conquering, holding, daring, venturing as we go the unknown ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">We primeval forests felling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We the rivers stemming, vexing we and piercing deep the mines within,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We the surface broad surveying, we the virgin soil upheaving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Colorado men are we,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the peaks gigantic, from the great sierras and the high plateaus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the mine and from the gully, from the hunting trail we come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">From Nebraska, from Arkansas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Central inland race are we, from Missouri, with the continental blood intervein’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the hands of comrades clasping, all the Southern, all the Northern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O resistless restless race!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O beloved race in all! O my breast aches with tender love for all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O I mourn and yet exult, I am rapt with love for all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Raise the mighty mother mistress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waving high the delicate mistress, over all the starry mistress, (bend your heads all,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raise the fang’d and warlike mistress, stern, impassive, weapon’d mistress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">See my children, resolute children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By those swarms upon our rear we must never yield or falter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ages back in ghostly millions frowning there behind us urging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">On and on the compact ranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With accessions ever waiting, with the places of the dead quickly fill’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the battle, through defeat, moving yet and never stopping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O to die advancing on!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are there some of us to droop and die? has the hour come?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then upon the march we fittest die, soon and sure the gap is fill’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">All the pulses of the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Falling in they beat for us, with the Western movement beat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holding single or together, steady moving to the front, all for us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Life’s involv’d and varied pageants,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the forms and shows, all the workmen at their work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the seamen and the landsmen, all the masters with their slaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">All the hapless silent lovers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the prisoners in the prisons, all the righteous and the wicked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the joyous, all the sorrowing, all the living, all the dying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">I too with my soul and body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We, a curious trio, picking, wandering on our way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through these shores amid the shadows, with the apparitions pressing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Lo, the darting bowling orb!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, the brother orbs around, all the clustering suns and planets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the dazzling days, all the mystic nights with dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">These are of us, they are with us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All for primal needed work, while the followers there in embryo wait behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We to-day’s procession heading, we the route for travel clearing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O you daughters of the West!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O you young and elder daughters! O you mothers and you wives!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never must you be divided, in our ranks you move united,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Minstrels latent on the prairies!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Shrouded bards of other lands, you may rest, you have done your work,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon I hear you coming warbling, soon you rise and tramp amid us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Not for delectations sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the cushion and the slipper, not the peaceful and the studious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the riches safe and palling, not for us the tame enjoyment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Do the feasters gluttonous feast?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do the corpulent sleepers sleep? have they lock’d and bolted doors?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still be ours the diet hard, and the blanket on the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Has the night descended?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was the road of late so toilsome? did we stop discouraged nodding on our way?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet a passing hour I yield you in your tracks to pause oblivious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Till with sound of trumpet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far, far off the daybreak call—hark! how loud and clear I hear it wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swift! to the head of the army!—swift! spring to your places,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pioneers! O pioneers!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-you-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To You</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Whoever you are, I fear you are walking the walks of dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fear these supposed realities are to melt from under your feet and hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even now your features, joys, speech, house, trade, manners, troubles, follies, costume, crimes, dissipate away from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your true soul and body appear before me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stand forth out of affairs, out of commerce, shops, work, farms, clothes, the house, buying, selling, eating, drinking, suffering, dying.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whoever you are, now I place my hand upon you, that you be my poem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I whisper with my lips close to your ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have loved many women and men, but I love none better than you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O I have been dilatory and dumb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should have made my way straight to you long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should have blabb’d nothing but you, I should have chanted nothing but you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will leave all and come and make the hymns of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None has understood you, but I understand you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None has done justice to you, you have not done justice to yourself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None but has found you imperfect, I only find no imperfection in you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None but would subordinate you, I only am he who will never consent to subordinate you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I only am he who places over you no master, owner, better, God, beyond what waits intrinsically in yourself.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Painters have painted their swarming groups and the centre-figure of all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the head of the centre-figure spreading a nimbus of gold-color’d light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I paint myriads of heads, but paint no head without its nimbus of gold-color’d light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From my hand from the brain of every man and woman it streams, effulgently flowing forever.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O I could sing such grandeurs and glories about you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You have not known what you are, you have slumber’d upon yourself all your life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eyelids have been the same as closed most of the time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What you have done returns already in mockeries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Your thrift, knowledge, prayers, if they do not return in mockeries, what is their return?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mockeries are not you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Underneath them and within them I see you lurk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pursue you where none else has pursued you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silence, the desk, the flippant expression, the night, the accustom’d routine, if these conceal you from others or from yourself, they do not conceal you from me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shaved face, the unsteady eye, the impure complexion, if these balk others they do not balk me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pert apparel, the deform’d attitude, drunkenness, greed, premature death, all these I part aside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There is no endowment in man or woman that is not tallied in you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no virtue, no beauty in man or woman, but as good is in you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No pluck, no endurance in others, but as good is in you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No pleasure waiting for others, but an equal pleasure waits for you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As for me, I give nothing to any one except I give the like carefully to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sing the songs of the glory of none, not God, sooner than I sing the songs of the glory of you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whoever you are! claim your own at any hazard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These shows of the East and West are tame compared to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These immense meadows, these interminable rivers, you are immense and interminable as they,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These furies, elements, storms, motions of Nature, throes of apparent dissolution, you are he or she who is master or mistress over them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Master or mistress in your own right over Nature, elements, pain, passion, dissolution.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The hopples fall from your ankles, you find an unfailing sufficiency,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old or young, male or female, rude, low, rejected by the rest, whatever you are promulges itself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through birth, life, death, burial, the means are provided, nothing is scanted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through angers, losses, ambition, ignorance, ennui, what you are picks its way.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="france" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">France</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">The 18th Year of These States</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>A great year and place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A harsh discordant natal scream out-sounding, to touch the mother’s heart closer than any yet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I walk’d the shores of my Eastern sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard over the waves the little voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the divine infant where she woke mournfully wailing, amid the roar of cannon, curses, shouts, crash of falling buildings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was not so sick from the blood in the gutters running, nor from the single corpses, nor those in heaps, nor those borne away in the tumbrils,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was not so desperate at the battues of death—was not so shock’d at the repeated fusillades of the guns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pale, silent, stern, what could I say to that long-accrued retribution?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could I wish humanity different?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could I wish the people made of wood and stone?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or that there be no justice in destiny or time?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Liberty! O mate for me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here too the blaze, the grape-shot and the axe, in reserve, to fetch them out in case of need,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here too, though long represt, can never be destroy’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here too could rise at last murdering and ecstatic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here too demanding full arrears of vengeance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hence I sign this salute over the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I do not deny that terrible red birth and baptism,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But remember the little voice that I heard wailing, and wait with perfect trust, no matter how long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from to-day sad and cogent I maintain the bequeath’d cause, as for all lands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I send these words to Paris with my love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I guess some chansonniers there will understand them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I guess there is latent music yet in France, floods of it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O I hear already the bustle of instruments, they will soon be drowning all that would interrupt them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O I think the east wind brings a triumphal and free march,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It reaches hither, it swells me to joyful madness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will run transpose it in words, to justify it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will yet sing a song for you ma femme.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="myself-and-mine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Myself and Mine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Myself and mine gymnastic ever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stand the cold or heat, to take good aim with a gun, to sail a boat, to manage horses, to beget superb children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To speak readily and clearly, to feel at home among common people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to hold our own in terrible positions on land and sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not for an embroiderer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(There will always be plenty of embroiderers, I welcome them also,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But for the fibre of things and for inherent men and women.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not to chisel ornaments,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to chisel with free stroke the heads and limbs of plenteous supreme Gods, that the States may realize them walking and talking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let me have my own way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let others promulge the laws, I will make no account of the laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let others praise eminent men and hold up peace, I hold up agitation and conflict,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I praise no eminent man, I rebuke to his face the one that was thought most worthy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Who are you? and what are you secretly guilty of all your life?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will you turn aside all your life? will you grub and chatter all your life?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who are you, blabbing by rote, years, pages, languages, reminiscences,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unwitting to-day that you do not know how to speak properly a single word?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let others finish specimens, I never finish specimens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I start them by exhaustless laws as Nature does, fresh and modern continually.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I give nothing as duties,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What others give as duties I give as living impulses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Shall I give the heart’s action as a duty?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let others dispose of questions, I dispose of nothing, I arouse unanswerable questions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who are they I see and touch, and what about them?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What about these likes of myself that draw me so close by tender directions and indirections?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I call to the world to distrust the accounts of my friends, but listen to my enemies, as I myself do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I charge you forever reject those who would expound me, for I cannot expound myself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I charge that there be no theory or school founded out of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I charge you to leave all free, as I have left all free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>After me, vista!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O I see life is not short, but immeasurably long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I henceforth tread the world chaste, temperate, an early riser, a steady grower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every hour the semen of centuries, and still of centuries.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I must follow up these continual lessons of the air, water, earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I perceive I have no time to lose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="year-of-meteors" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Year of Meteors</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(1859–60)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Year of meteors! brooding year!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would bind in words retrospective some of your deeds and signs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would sing your contest for the 19th Presidentiad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would sing how an old man, tall, with white hair, mounted the scaffold in Virginia,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I was at hand, silent I stood with teeth shut close, I watch’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stood very near you old man when cool and indifferent, but trembling with age and your unheal’d wounds, you mounted the scaffold;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would sing in my copious song your census returns of the States,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tables of population and products, I would sing of your ships and their cargoes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The proud black ships of Manhattan arriving, some fill’d with immigrants, some from the isthmus with cargoes of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Songs thereof would I sing, to all that hitherward comes would I welcome give,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you would I sing, fair stripling! welcome to you from me, young prince of England!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Remember you surging Manhattan’s crowds as you pass’d with your cortege of nobles?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in the crowds stood I, and singled you out with attachment;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor forget I to sing of the wonder, the ship as she swam up my bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well-shaped and stately the Great Eastern swam up my bay, she was 600 feet long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her moving swiftly surrounded by myriads of small craft I forget not to sing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the comet that came unannounced out of the north flaring in heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the strange huge meteor-procession dazzling and clear shooting over our heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A moment, a moment long it sail’d its balls of unearthly light over our heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then departed, dropt in the night, and was gone;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of such, and fitful as they, I sing—with gleams from them would I gleam and patch these chants,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your chants, O year all mottled with evil and good—year of forebodings!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Year of comets and meteors transient and strange—lo! even here one equally transient and strange!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I flit through you hastily, soon to fall and be gone, what is this chant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What am I myself but one of your meteors?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="with-antecedents" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">With Antecedents</h3>
				<section id="with-antecedents-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>With antecedents,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With my fathers and mothers and the accumulations of past ages,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all which, had it not been, I would not now be here, as I am,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With Egypt, India, Phenicia, Greece and Rome,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the Kelt, the Scandinavian, the Alb and the Saxon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With antique maritime ventures, laws, artisanship, wars and journeys,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the poet, the skald, the saga, the myth, and the oracle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the sale of slaves, with enthusiasts, with the troubadour, the crusader, and the monk,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With those old continents whence we have come to this new continent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the fading kingdoms and kings over there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the fading religions and priests,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the small shores we look back to from our own large and present shores,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With countless years drawing themselves onward and arrived at these years,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You and me arrived—America arrived and making this year,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This year! sending itself ahead countless years to come.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="with-antecedents-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>O but it is not the years—it is I, it is You,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We touch all laws and tally all antecedents,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We are the skald, the oracle, the monk and the knight, we easily include them and more,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We stand amid time beginningless and endless, we stand amid evil and good,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All swings around us, there is as much darkness as light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The very sun swings itself and its system of planets around us,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its sun, and its again, all swing around us.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>As for me, (torn, stormy, amid these vehement days,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have the idea of all, and am all and believe in all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I believe materialism is true and spiritualism is true, I reject no part.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(Have I forgotten any part? any thing in the past?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come to me whoever and whatever, till I give you recognition.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I respect Assyria, China, Teutonia, and the Hebrews,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I adopt each theory, myth, god, and demi-god,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see that the old accounts, bibles, genealogies, are true, without exception,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I assert that all past days were what they must have been,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that they could no-how have been better than they were,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that to-day is what it must be, and that America is,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that to-day and America could no-how be better than they are.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="with-antecedents-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>In the name of these States and in your and my name, the Past,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And in the name of these States and in your and my name, the Present time.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I know that the past was great and the future will be great,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I know that both curiously conjoint in the present time,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(For the sake of him I typify, for the common average man’s sake, your sake if you are he,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that where I am or you are this present day, there is the centre of all days, all races,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there is the meaning to us of all that has ever come of races and days, or ever will come.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
