<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>By the Roadside</title>
<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="by-the-roadside" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title">By the Roadside</h2>
<article id="a-boston-ballad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<header>
		<h3 epub:type="title">A Boston Ballad</h3>
		<p epub:type="bridgehead">(1854)</p>
	</header>
	<p>
		<span>To get betimes in Boston town I rose this morning early,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Here’s a good place at the corner, I must stand and see the show.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Clear the way there Jonathan!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Way for the President’s marshal—way for the government cannon!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Way for the Federal foot and dragoons, (and the apparitions copiously tumbling.)</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>I love to look on the Stars and Stripes, I hope the fifes will play Yankee Doodle.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>How bright shine the cutlasses of the foremost troops!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Every man holds his revolver, marching stiff through Boston town.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>A fog follows, antiques of the same come limping,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Some appear wooden-legged, and some appear bandaged and bloodless.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Why this is indeed a show—it has called the dead out of the earth!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The old graveyards of the hills have hurried to see!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Phantoms! phantoms countless by flank and rear!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Cock’d hats of mothy mould—crutches made of mist!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Arms in slings—old men leaning on young men’s shoulders.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>What troubles you Yankee phantoms? what is all this chattering of bare gums?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Does the ague convulse your limbs? do you mistake your crutches for firelocks and level them?</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>If you blind your eyes with tears you will not see the President’s marshal,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>If you groan such groans you might balk the government cannon.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>For shame old maniacs—bring down those toss’d arms, and let your white hair be,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Here gape your great-grandsons, their wives gaze at them from the windows,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>See how well dress’d, see how orderly they conduct themselves.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Worse and worse—can’t you stand it? are you retreating?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Is this hour with the living too dead for you?</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Retreat then—pell-mell!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>To your graves—back—back to the hills old limpers!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I do not think you belong here anyhow.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>But there is one thing that belongs here—shall I tell you what it is, gentlemen of Boston?</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>I will whisper it to the Mayor, he shall send a committee to England,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>They shall get a grant from the Parliament, go with a cart to the royal vault,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Dig out King George’s coffin, unwrap him quick from the grave-clothes, box up his bones for a journey,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Find a swift Yankee clipper—here is freight for you, black-bellied clipper,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Up with your anchor—shake out your sails—steer straight toward Boston bay.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Now call for the President’s marshal again, bring out the government cannon,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Fetch home the roarers from Congress, make another procession, guard it with foot and dragoons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>This centre-piece for them;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Look, all orderly citizens—look from the windows, women!</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>The committee open the box, set up the regal ribs, glue those that will not stay,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Clap the skull on top of the ribs, and clap a crown on top of the skull.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>You have got your revenge, old buster—the crown is come to its own, and more than its own.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Stick your hands in your pockets, Jonathan—you are a made man from this day,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>You are mighty cute—and here is one of your bargains.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="europe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<header>
		<h3 epub:type="title">Europe</h3>
		<p epub:type="bridgehead">The 72d and 73d Years of These States</p>
	</header>
	<p>
		<span>Suddenly out of its stale and drowsy lair, the lair of slaves,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Like lightning it le’pt forth half startled at itself,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Its feet upon the ashes and the rags, its hands tight to the throats of kings.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>O hope and faith!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>O aching close of exiled patriots’ lives!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>O many a sicken’d heart!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Turn back unto this day and make yourselves afresh.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>And you, paid to defile the People—you liars, mark!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Not for numberless agonies, murders, lusts,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>For court thieving in its manifold mean forms, worming from his simplicity the poor man’s wages,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>For many a promise sworn by royal lips and broken and laugh’d at in the breaking,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Then in their power not for all these did the blows strike revenge, or the heads of the nobles fall;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The People scorn’d the ferocity of kings.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>But the sweetness of mercy brew’d bitter destruction, and the frighten’d monarchs come back,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Each comes in state with his train, hangman, priest, tax-gatherer,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Soldier, lawyer, lord, jailer, and sycophant.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Yet behind all lowering stealing, lo, a shape,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Vague as the night, draped interminably, head, front and form, in scarlet folds,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Whose face and eyes none may see,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Out of its robes only this, the red robes lifted by the arm,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>One finger crook’d pointed high over the top, like the head of a snake appears.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Meanwhile corpses lie in new-made graves, bloody corpses of young men,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The rope of the gibbet hangs heavily, the bullets of princes are flying, the creatures of power laugh aloud,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And all these things bear fruits, and they are good.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Those corpses of young men,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Those martyrs that hang from the gibbets, those hearts pierc’d by the gray lead,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Cold and motionless as they seem live elsewhere with unslaughter’d vitality.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>They live in other young men O kings!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>They live in brothers again ready to defy you,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>They were purified by death, they were taught and exalted.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Not a grave of the murder’d for freedom but grows seed for freedom, in its turn to bear seed,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Which the winds carry afar and re-sow, and the rains and the snows nourish.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Not a disembodied spirit can the weapons of tyrants let loose,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>But it stalks invisibly over the earth, whispering, counseling, cautioning.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Liberty, let others despair of you—I never despair of you.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Is the house shut? is the master away?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Nevertheless, be ready, be not weary of watching,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>He will soon return, his messengers come anon.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="a-hand-mirror" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">A Hand-Mirror</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Hold it up sternly—see this it sends back, (who is it? is it you?)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Outside fair costume, within ashes and filth,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>No more a flashing eye, no more a sonorous voice or springy step,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Now some slave’s eye, voice, hands, step,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A drunkard’s breath, unwholesome eater’s face, venerealee’s flesh,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Lungs rotting away piecemeal, stomach sour and cankerous,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Joints rheumatic, bowels clogged with abomination,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Blood circulating dark and poisonous streams,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Words babble, hearing and touch callous,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>No brain, no heart left, no magnetism of sex;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Such from one look in this looking-glass ere you go hence,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Such a result so soon—and from such a beginning!</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="gods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Gods</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Lover divine and perfect Comrade,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Waiting content, invisible yet, but certain,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Be thou my God.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Thou, thou, the Ideal Man,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Fair, able, beautiful, content, and loving,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Complete in body and dilate in spirit,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Be thou my God.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>O Death, (for Life has served its turn,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Opener and usher to the heavenly mansion,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Be thou my God.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Aught, aught of mightiest, best I see, conceive, or know,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(To break the stagnant tie—thee, thee to free, O soul,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Be thou my God.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>All great ideas, the races’ aspirations,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>All heroisms, deeds of rapt enthusiasts,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Be ye my Gods.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Or Time and Space,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Or shape of Earth divine and wondrous,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Or some fair shape I viewing, worship,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Or lustrous orb of sun or star by night,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Be ye my Gods.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="germs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Germs</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Forms, qualities, lives, humanity, language, thoughts,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The ones known, and the ones unknown, the ones on the stars,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The stars themselves, some shaped, others unshaped,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Wonders as of those countries, the soil, trees, cities, inhabitants, whatever they may be,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Splendid suns, the moons and rings, the countless combinations and effects,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Such-like, and as good as such-like, visible here or anywhere, stand provided for in a handful of space, which I extend my arm and half enclose with my hand,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>That containing the start of each and all, the virtue, the germs of all.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="thoughts-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Thoughts</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Of ownership—as if one fit to own things could not at pleasure enter upon all, and incorporate them into himself or herself;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of vista—suppose some sight in arriere through the formative chaos, presuming the growth, fulness, life, now attain’d on the journey,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(But I see the road continued, and the journey ever continued;)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of what was once lacking on earth, and in due time has become supplied—and of what will yet be supplied,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Because all I see and know I believe to have its main purport in what will yet be supplied.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="when-i-heard-the-learnd-astronomer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer</h3>
	<p>
		<span>When I heard the learn’d astronomer,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>When I was shown the charts and diagrams, to add, divide, and measure them,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Till rising and gliding out I wander’d off by myself,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Look’d up in perfect silence at the stars.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="perfections" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Perfections</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Only themselves understand themselves and the like of themselves,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As souls only understand souls.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="o-me-o-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">O Me! O Life!</h3>
	<p>
		<span>O me! O life! of the questions of these recurring,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of the endless trains of the faithless, of cities fill’d with the foolish,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of myself forever reproaching myself, (for who more foolish than I, and who more faithless?)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of eyes that vainly crave the light, of the objects mean, of the struggle ever renew’d,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of the poor results of all, of the plodding and sordid crowds I see around me,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of the empty and useless years of the rest, with the rest me intertwined,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The question, O me! so sad, recurring—What good amid these, O me, O life?</span>
	</p>
	<section id="o-me-o-life-answer" epub:type="part">
		<header class="speaker">
			<p epub:type="bridgehead">Answer</p>
		</header>
		<p>
			<span>That you are here—that life exists and identity,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That the powerful play goes on, and you may contribute a verse.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
</article>
<article id="to-a-president" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To a President</h3>
	<p>
		<span>All you are doing and saying is to America dangled mirages,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>You have not learn’d of Nature—of the politics of Nature you have not learn’d the great amplitude, rectitude, impartiality,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>You have not seen that only such as they are for these States,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And that what is less than they must sooner or later lift off from these States.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="i-sit-and-look-out" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">I Sit and Look Out</h3>
	<p>
		<span>I sit and look out upon all the sorrows of the world, and upon all oppression and shame,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I hear secret convulsive sobs from young men at anguish with themselves, remorseful after deeds done,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I see in low life the mother misused by her children, dying, neglected, gaunt, desperate,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I see the wife misused by her husband, I see the treacherous seducer of young women,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I mark the ranklings of jealousy and unrequited love attempted to be hid, I see these sights on the earth,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I see the workings of battle, pestilence, tyranny, I see martyrs and prisoners,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I observe a famine at sea, I observe the sailors casting lots who shall be kill’d to preserve the lives of the rest,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I observe the slights and degradations cast by arrogant persons upon laborers, the poor, and upon negroes, and the like;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>All these—all the meanness and agony without end I sitting look out upon,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>See, hear, and am silent.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-rich-givers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To Rich Givers</h3>
	<p>
		<span>What you give me I cheerfully accept,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A little sustenance, a hut and garden, a little money, as I rendezvous with my poems,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A traveler’s lodging and breakfast as I journey through the States,—why should I be ashamed to own such gifts? why to advertise for them?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>For I myself am not one who bestows nothing upon man and woman,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>For I bestow upon any man or woman the entrance to all the gifts of the universe.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="the-dalliance-of-the-eagles" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">The Dalliance of the Eagles</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Skirting the river road, (my forenoon walk, my rest,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Skyward in air a sudden muffled sound, the dalliance of the eagles,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The rushing amorous contact high in space together,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The clinching interlocking claws, a living, fierce, gyrating wheel,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Four beating wings, two beaks, a swirling mass tight grappling,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>In tumbling turning clustering loops, straight downward falling,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Till o’er the river pois’d, the twain yet one, a moment’s lull,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A motionless still balance in the air, then parting, talons loosing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Upward again on slow-firm pinions slanting, their separate diverse flight,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>She hers, he his, pursuing.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="roaming-in-thought" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<header>
		<h3 epub:type="title">Roaming in Thought</h3>
		<p epub:type="bridgehead">(After Reading <i>Hegel</i>)</p>
	</header>
	<p>
		<span>Roaming in thought over the Universe, I saw the little that is Good steadily hastening towards immortality,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And the vast all that is call’d Evil I saw hastening to merge itself and become lost and dead.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="a-farm-picture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">A Farm Picture</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Through the ample open door of the peaceful country barn,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A sunlit pasture field with cattle and horses feeding,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And haze and vista, and the far horizon fading away.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="a-childs-amaze" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">A Child’s Amaze</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Silent and amazed even when a little boy,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I remember I heard the preacher every Sunday put God in his statements,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As contending against some being or influence.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="the-runner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">The Runner</h3>
	<p>
		<span>On a flat road runs the well-train’d runner,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>He is lean and sinewy with muscular legs,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>He is thinly clothed, he leans forward as he runs,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>With lightly closed fists and arms partially rais’d.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="beautiful-women" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Beautiful Women</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Women sit or move to and fro, some old, some young,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The young are beautiful—but the old are more beautiful than the young.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="mother-and-babe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Mother and Babe</h3>
	<p>
		<span>I see the sleeping babe nestling the breast of its mother,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The sleeping mother and babe—hush’d, I study them long and long.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="thought-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Thought</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Of obedience, faith, adhesiveness;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As I stand aloof and look there is to me something profoundly affecting in large masses of men following the lead of those who do not believe in men.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="visord" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Visor’d</h3>
	<p>
		<span>A mask, a perpetual natural disguiser of herself,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Concealing her face, concealing her form,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Changes and transformations every hour, every moment,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Falling upon her even when she sleeps.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="thought-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Thought</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Of justice—as if Justice could be any thing but the same ample law, expounded by natural judges and saviors,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As if it might be this thing or that thing, according to decisions.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="gliding-oer-all" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Gliding O’er All</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Gliding o’er all, through all,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Through Nature, Time, and Space,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As a ship on the waters advancing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The voyage of the soul—not life alone,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Death, many deaths I’ll sing.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="hast-never-come-to-thee-an-hour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Hast Never Come to Thee an Hour</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Hast never come to thee an hour,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A sudden gleam divine, precipitating, bursting all these bubbles, fashions, wealth?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>These eager business aims—books, politics, art, amours,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>To utter nothingness?</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="thought-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Thought</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Of Equality—as if it harm’d me, giving others the same chances and rights as myself—as if it were not indispensable to my own rights that others possess the same.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-old-age" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To Old Age</h3>
	<p>
		<span>I see in you the estuary that enlarges and spreads itself grandly as it pours in the great sea.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="locations-and-times" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Locations and Times</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Locations and times—what is it in me that meets them all, whenever and wherever, and makes me at home?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Forms, colors, densities, odors—what is it in me that corresponds with them?</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="offerings" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Offerings</h3>
	<p>
		<span>A thousand perfect men and women appear,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Around each gathers a cluster of friends, and gay children and youths, with offerings.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-the-states-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<header>
		<h3 epub:type="title">To the States</h3>
		<p epub:type="bridgehead">To Identify the 16th, 17th, or 18th Presidentiad</p>
	</header>
	<p>
		<span>Why reclining, interrogating? why myself and all drowsing?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>What deepening twilight—scum floating atop of the waters,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Who are they as bats and night-dogs askant in the capitol?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>What a filthy Presidentiad! (O South, your torrid suns! O North, your arctic freezings!)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Are those really Congressmen? are those the great Judges? is that the President?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Then I will sleep awhile yet, for I see that these States sleep, for reasons;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(With gathering murk, with muttering thunder and lambent shoots we all duly awake,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>South, North, East, West, inland and seaboard, we will surely awake.)</span>
	</p>
</article>
</section>
</body>
</html>
