<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Crossing Brooklyn Ferry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Crossing Brooklyn Ferry</h2>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-1" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Flood-tide below me! I see you face to face!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clouds of the west⁠—sun there half an hour high⁠—I see you also face to face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Crowds of men and women attired in the usual costumes, how curious you are to me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the ferry-boats the hundreds and hundreds that cross, returning home, are more curious to me than you suppose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you that shall cross from shore to shore years hence are more to me, and more in my meditations, than you might suppose.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-2" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The impalpable sustenance of me from all things at all hours of the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The simple, compact, well-join’d scheme, myself disintegrated, every one disintegrated yet part of the scheme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The similitudes of the past and those of the future,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glories strung like beads on my smallest sights and hearings, on the walk in the street and the passage over the river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The current rushing so swiftly and swimming with me far away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The others that are to follow me, the ties between me and them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The certainty of others, the life, love, sight, hearing of others.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Others will enter the gates of the ferry and cross from shore to shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others will watch the run of the flood-tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others will see the shipping of Manhattan north and west, and the heights of Brooklyn to the south and east,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others will see the islands large and small;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fifty years hence, others will see them as they cross, the sun half an hour high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred years hence, or ever so many hundred years hence, others will see them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will enjoy the sunset, the pouring-in of the flood-tide, the falling-back to the sea of the ebb-tide.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-3" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It avails not, time nor place⁠—distance avails not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am with you, you men and women of a generation, or ever so many generations hence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just as you feel when you look on the river and sky, so I felt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just as any of you is one of a living crowd, I was one of a crowd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just as you are refresh’d by the gladness of the river and the bright flow, I was refresh’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just as you stand and lean on the rail, yet hurry with the swift current, I stood yet was hurried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just as you look on the numberless masts of ships and the thick-stemm’d pipes of steamboats, I look’d.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I too many and many a time cross’d the river of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watched the Twelfth-month sea-gulls, saw them high in the air floating with motionless wings, oscillating their bodies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw how the glistening yellow lit up parts of their bodies and left the rest in strong shadow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the slow-wheeling circles and the gradual edging toward the south,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the reflection of the summer sky in the water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had my eyes dazzled by the shimmering track of beams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look’d at the fine centrifugal spokes of light round the shape of my head in the sunlit water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look’d on the haze on the hills southward and south-westward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look’d on the vapor as it flew in fleeces tinged with violet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look’d toward the lower bay to notice the vessels arriving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw their approach, saw aboard those that were near me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the white sails of schooners and sloops, saw the ships at anchor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sailors at work in the rigging or out astride the spars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The round masts, the swinging motion of the hulls, the slender serpentine pennants,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The large and small steamers in motion, the pilots in their pilot-houses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The white wake left by the passage, the quick tremulous whirl of the wheels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flags of all nations, the falling of them at sunset,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scallop-edged waves in the twilight, the ladled cups, the frolicsome crests and glistening,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stretch afar growing dimmer and dimmer, the gray walls of the granite storehouses by the docks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the river the shadowy group, the big steam-tug closely flank’d on each side by the barges, the hay-boat, the belated lighter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the neighboring shore the fires from the foundry chimneys burning high and glaringly into the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Casting their flicker of black contrasted with wild red and yellow light over the tops of houses, and down into the clefts of streets.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-4" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
				<p>
					<span>These and all else were to me the same as they are to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I loved well those cities, loved well the stately and rapid river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The men and women I saw were all near to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others the same⁠—others who look back on me because I look’d forward to them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The time will come, though I stop here to-day and to-night.)</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-5" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What is it then between us?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is the count of the scores or hundreds of years between us?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whatever it is, it avails not⁠—distance avails not, and place avails not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too lived, Brooklyn of ample hills was mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too walk’d the streets of Manhattan island, and bathed in the waters around it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too felt the curious abrupt questionings stir within me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the day among crowds of people sometimes they came upon me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my walks home late at night or as I lay in my bed they came upon me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too had been struck from the float forever held in solution,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too had receiv’d identity by my body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I was I knew was of my body, and what I should be I knew I should be of my body.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-6" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is not upon you alone the dark patches fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dark threw its patches down upon me also,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The best I had done seem’d to me blank and suspicious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My great thoughts as I supposed them, were they not in reality meagre?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor is it you alone who know what it is to be evil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am he who knew what it was to be evil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too knitted the old knot of contrariety,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blabb’d, blush’d, resented, lied, stole, grudg’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had guile, anger, lust, hot wishes I dared not speak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was wayward, vain, greedy, shallow, sly, cowardly, malignant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wolf, the snake, the hog, not wanting in me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cheating look, the frivolous word, the adulterous wish, not wanting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refusals, hates, postponements, meanness, laziness, none of these wanting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was one with the rest, the days and haps of the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was call’d by my nighest name by clear loud voices of young men as they saw me approaching or passing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felt their arms on my neck as I stood, or the negligent leaning of their flesh against me as I sat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw many I loved in the street or ferry-boat or public assembly, yet never told them a word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived the same life with the rest, the same old laughing, gnawing, sleeping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Play’d the part that still looks back on the actor or actress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same old role, the role that is what we make it, as great as we like,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or as small as we like, or both great and small.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-7" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">7</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Closer yet I approach you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What thought you have of me now, I had as much of you⁠—I laid in my stores in advance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I consider’d long and seriously of you before you were born.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who was to know what should come home to me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows but I am enjoying this?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows, for all the distance, but I am as good as looking at you now, for all you cannot see me?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-8" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">8</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, what can ever be more stately and admirable to me than mast-hemm’d Manhattan?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>River and sunset and scallop-edg’d waves of flood-tide?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea-gulls oscillating their bodies, the hay-boat in the twilight, and the belated lighter?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What gods can exceed these that clasp me by the hand, and with voices I love call me promptly and loudly by my nighest name as I approach?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is more subtle than this which ties me to the woman or man that looks in my face?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which fuses me into you now, and pours my meaning into you?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We understand then do we not?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What I promis’d without mentioning it, have you not accepted?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What the study could not teach⁠—what the preaching could not accomplish is accomplish’d, is it not?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="crossing-brooklyn-ferry-9" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">9</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Flow on, river! flow with the flood-tide, and ebb with the ebb-tide!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frolic on, crested and scallop-edg’d waves!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gorgeous clouds of the sunset! drench with your splendor me, or the men and women generations after me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cross from shore to shore, countless crowds of passengers!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand up, tall masts of Mannahatta! stand up, beautiful hills of Brooklyn!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throb, baffled and curious brain! throw out questions and answers!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suspend here and everywhere, eternal float of solution!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gaze, loving and thirsting eyes, in the house or street or public assembly!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sound out, voices of young men! loudly and musically call me by my nighest name!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live, old life! play the part that looks back on the actor or actress!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Play the old role, the role that is great or small according as one makes it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider, you who peruse me, whether I may not in unknown ways be looking upon you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be firm, rail over the river, to support those who lean idly, yet haste with the hasting current;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fly on, sea-birds! fly sideways, or wheel in large circles high in the air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Receive the summer sky, you water, and faithfully hold it till all downcast eyes have time to take it from you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Diverge, fine spokes of light, from the shape of my head, or any one’s head, in the sunlit water!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come on, ships from the lower bay! pass up or down, white-sail’d schooners, sloops, lighters!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flaunt away, flags of all nations! be duly lower’d at sunset!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burn high your fires, foundry chimneys! cast black shadows at nightfall! cast red and yellow light over the tops of the houses!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appearances, now or henceforth, indicate what you are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You necessary film, continue to envelop the soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About my body for me, and your body for you, be hung our divinest aromas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrive, cities⁠—bring your freight, bring your shows, ample and sufficient rivers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expand, being than which none else is perhaps more spiritual,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keep your places, objects than which none else is more lasting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You have waited, you always wait, you dumb, beautiful ministers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We receive you with free sense at last, and are insatiate henceforward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not you any more shall be able to foil us, or withhold yourselves from us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We use you, and do not cast you aside⁠—we plant you permanently within us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We fathom you not⁠—we love you⁠—there is perfection in you also,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You furnish your parts toward eternity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great or small, you furnish your parts toward the soul.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
