<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Drum-Taps</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="drum-taps" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Drum-Taps</h2>
			<article id="first-o-songs-for-a-prelude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">First O Songs for a Prelude</h3>
				<p>
					<span>First O songs for a prelude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lightly strike on the stretch’d tympanum pride and joy in my city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How she led the rest to arms, how she gave the cue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How at once with lithe limbs unwaiting a moment she sprang,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(O superb! O Manhattan, my own, my peerless!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O strongest you in the hour of danger, in crisis! O truer than steel!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How you sprang⁠—how you threw off the costumes of peace with indifferent hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How your soft opera-music changed, and the drum and fife were heard in their stead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How you led to the war, (that shall serve for our prelude, songs of soldiers,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How Manhattan drum-taps led.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forty years had I in my city seen soldiers parading,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forty years as a pageant, till unawares the lady of this teeming and turbulent city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleepless amid her ships, her houses, her incalculable wealth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her million children around her, suddenly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At dead of night, at news from the south,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Incens’d struck with clinch’d hand the pavement.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A shock electric, the night sustain’d it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till with ominous hum our hive at daybreak pour’d out its myriads.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the houses then and the workshops, and through all the doorways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leapt they tumultuous, and lo! Manhattan arming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To the drum-taps prompt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The young men falling in and arming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mechanics arming, (the trowel, the jack-plane, the blacksmith’s hammer, tost aside with precipitation,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lawyer leaving his office and arming, the judge leaving the court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The driver deserting his wagon in the street, jumping down, throwing the reins abruptly down on the horses’ backs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The salesman leaving the store, the boss, book-keeper, porter, all leaving;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Squads gather everywhere by common consent and arm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The new recruits, even boys, the old men show them how to wear their accoutrements, they buckle the straps carefully,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outdoors arming, indoors arming, the flash of the musket-barrels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The white tents cluster in camps, the arm’d sentries around, the sunrise cannon and again at sunset,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arm’d regiments arrive every day, pass through the city, and embark from the wharves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(How good they look as they tramp down to the river, sweaty, with their guns on their shoulders!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I love them! how I could hug them, with their brown faces and their clothes and knapsacks cover’d with dust!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blood of the city up⁠—arm’d! arm’d! the cry everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flags flung out from the steeples of churches and from all the public buildings and stores,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tearful parting, the mother kisses her son, the son kisses his mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Loth is the mother to part, yet not a word does she speak to detain him,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tumultuous escort, the ranks of policemen preceding, clearing the way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unpent enthusiasm, the wild cheers of the crowd for their favorites,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The artillery, the silent cannons bright as gold, drawn along, rumble lightly over the stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Silent cannons, soon to cease your silence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon unlimber’d to begin the red business;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the mutter of preparation, all the determin’d arming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hospital service, the lint, bandages and medicines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The women volunteering for nurses, the work begun for in earnest, no mere parade now;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>War! an arm’d race is advancing! the welcome for battle, no turning away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>War! be it weeks, months, or years, an arm’d race is advancing to welcome it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mannahatta a-march⁠—and it’s O to sing it well!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s O for a manly life in the camp.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the sturdy artillery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The guns bright as gold, the work for giants, to serve well the guns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unlimber them! (no more as the past forty years for salutes for courtesies merely,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put in something now besides powder and wadding.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And you lady of ships, you Mannahatta,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old matron of this proud, friendly, turbulent city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Often in peace and wealth you were pensive or covertly frown’d amid all your children,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now you smile with joy exulting old Mannahatta.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="eighteen-sixty-one" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Eighteen Sixty-One</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Arm’d year⁠—year of the struggle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No dainty rhymes or sentimental love verses for you terrible year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not you as some pale poetling seated at a desk lisping cadenzas piano,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But as a strong man erect, clothed in blue clothes, advancing, carrying a rifle on your shoulder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With well-gristled body and sunburnt face and hands, with a knife in the belt at your side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I heard you shouting loud, your sonorous voice ringing across the continent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your masculine voice O year, as rising amid the great cities,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the men of Manhattan I saw you as one of the workmen, the dwellers in Manhattan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or with large steps crossing the prairies out of Illinois and Indiana,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rapidly crossing the West with springy gait and descending the Alleghanies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or down from the great lakes or in Pennsylvania, or on deck along the Ohio river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or southward along the Tennessee or Cumberland rivers, or at Chattanooga on the mountain top,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw I your gait and saw I your sinewy limbs clothed in blue, bearing weapons, robust year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard your determin’d voice launch’d forth again and again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Year that suddenly sang by the mouths of the round-lipp’d cannon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I repeat you, hurrying, crashing, sad, distracted year.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="beat-beat-drums" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Beat! Beat! Drums!</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beat! beat! drums!⁠—blow! bugles! blow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the windows⁠—through doors⁠—burst like a ruthless force,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the solemn church, and scatter the congregation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the school where the scholar is studying;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leave not the bridegroom quiet⁠—no happiness must he have now with his bride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the peaceful farmer any peace, ploughing his field or gathering his grain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So fierce you whirr and pound you drums⁠—so shrill you bugles blow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beat! beat! drums!⁠—blow! bugles! blow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the traffic of cities⁠—over the rumble of wheels in the streets;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are beds prepared for sleepers at night in the houses? no sleepers must sleep in those beds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No bargainers’ bargains by day⁠—no brokers or speculators⁠—would they continue?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would the talkers be talking? would the singer attempt to sing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would the lawyer rise in the court to state his case before the judge?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rattle quicker, heavier drums⁠—you bugles wilder blow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beat! beat! drums!⁠—blow! bugles! blow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make no parley⁠—stop for no expostulation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mind not the timid⁠—mind not the weeper or prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mind not the old man beseeching the young man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let not the child’s voice be heard, nor the mother’s entreaties,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make even the trestles to shake the dead where they lie awaiting the hearses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So strong you thump O terrible drums⁠—so loud you bugles blow.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-paumanok-starting-i-fly-like-a-bird" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From Paumanok Starting I Fly Like a Bird</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From Paumanok starting I fly like a bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around and around to soar to sing the idea of all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the north betaking myself to sing there arctic songs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Kanada till I absorb Kanada in myself, to Michigan then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, to sing their songs, (they are inimitable;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then to Ohio and Indiana to sing theirs, to Missouri and Kansas and Arkansas to sing theirs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Tennessee and Kentucky, to the Carolinas and Georgia to sing theirs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Texas and so along up toward California, to roam accepted everywhere;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sing first, (to the tap of the war-drum if need be,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The idea of all, of the Western world one and inseparable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the song of each member of these States.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Song of the Banner at Daybreak</h3>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-poet" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Poet</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O a new song, a free song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flapping, flapping, flapping, flapping, by sounds, by voices clearer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the wind’s voice and that of the drum,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the banner’s voice and child’s voice and sea’s voice and father’s voice,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Low on the ground and high in the air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the ground where father and child stand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the upward air where their eyes turn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where the banner at daybreak is flapping.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Words! book-words! what are you?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Words no more, for hearken and see,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My song is there in the open air, and I must sing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the banner and pennant a-flapping.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I’ll weave the chord and twine in,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Man’s desire and babe’s desire, I’ll twine them in, I’ll put in life,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll put the bayonet’s flashing point, I’ll let bullets and slugs whizz,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(As one carrying a symbol and menace far into the future,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crying with trumpet voice, <q>Arouse and beware! Beware and arouse!</q>)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll pour the verse with streams of blood, full of volition, full of joy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then loosen, launch forth, to go and compete,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the banner and pennant a-flapping.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-pennant" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Pennant</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Come up here, bard, bard,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come up here, soul, soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come up here, dear little child,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To fly in the clouds and winds with me, and play with the measureless light.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-child" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Child</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Father what is that in the sky beckoning to me with long finger?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And what does it say to me all the while?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-father" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Father</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Nothing my babe you see in the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And nothing at all to you it says⁠—but look you my babe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Look at these dazzling things in the houses, and see you the money-shops opening,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And see you the vehicles preparing to crawl along the streets with goods;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These, ah these, how valued and toil’d for these!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How envied by all the earth!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-poet-2" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Poet</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Fresh and rosy red the sun is mounting high,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On floats the sea in distant blue careering through its channels,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On floats the wind over the breast of the sea setting in toward land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The great steady wind from west or west-by-south,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Floating so buoyant with milk-white foam on the waters.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But I am not the sea nor the red sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am not the wind with girlish laughter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not the immense wind which strengthens, not the wind which lashes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not the spirit that ever lashes its own body to terror and death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But I am that which unseen comes and sings, sings, sings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which babbles in brooks and scoots in showers on the land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which the birds know in the woods mornings and evenings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the shore-sands know and the hissing wave, and that banner and pennant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Aloft there flapping and flapping.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-child-2" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Child</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O father it is alive⁠—it is full of people⁠—it has children,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O now it seems to me it is talking to its children,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear it⁠—it talks to me⁠—O it is wonderful!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O it stretches⁠—it spreads and runs so fast⁠—O my father,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is so broad it covers the whole sky.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-father-2" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Father</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Cease, cease, my foolish babe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What you are saying is sorrowful to me, much it displeases me;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behold with the rest again I say, behold not banners and pennants aloft,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the well-prepared pavements behold, and mark the solid-wall’d houses.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-banner-and-pennant" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Banner and Pennant</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Speak to the child O bard out of Manhattan,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To our children all, or north or south of Manhattan,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Point this day, leaving all the rest, to us over all⁠—and yet we know not why,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For what are we, mere strips of cloth profiting nothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only flapping in the wind?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-poet-3" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Poet</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>I hear and see not strips of cloth alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the tramp of armies, I hear the challenging sentry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the jubilant shouts of millions of men, I hear Liberty!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the drums beat and the trumpets blowing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I myself move abroad swift-rising flying then,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I use the wings of the land-bird and use the wings of the sea-bird, and look down as from a height,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I do not deny the precious results of peace, I see populous cities with wealth incalculable,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see numberless farms, I see the farmers working in their fields or barns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see mechanics working, I see buildings everywhere founded, going up, or finish’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see trains of cars swiftly speeding along railroad tracks drawn by the locomotives,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the stores, depots, of Boston, Baltimore, Charleston, New Orleans,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see far in the West the immense area of grain, I dwell awhile hovering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I pass to the lumber forests of the North, and again to the Southern plantation, and again to California;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sweeping the whole I see the countless profit, the busy gatherings, earn’d wages,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See the Identity formed out of thirty-eight spacious and haughty States, (and many more to come,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See forts on the shores of harbors, see ships sailing in and out;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then over all, (aye! aye!) my little and lengthen’d pennant shaped like a sword,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Runs swiftly up indicating war and defiance⁠—and now the halyards have rais’d it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Side of my banner broad and blue, side of my starry banner,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Discarding peace over all the sea and land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-banner-and-pennant-2" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Banner and Pennant</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Yet louder, higher, stronger, bard! yet farther, wider cleave!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No longer let our children deem us riches and peace alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We may be terror and carnage, and are so now,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not now are we any one of these spacious and haughty States, (nor any five, nor ten,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor market nor depot we, nor money-bank in the city,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But these and all, and the brown and spreading land, and the mines below, are ours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the shores of the sea are ours, and the rivers great and small,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the fields they moisten, and the crops and the fruits are ours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bays and channels and ships sailing in and out are ours⁠—while we over all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over the area spread below, the three or four millions of square miles, the capitals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The forty millions of people,⁠—O bard! in life and death supreme,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We, even we, henceforth flaunt out masterful, high up above,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not for the present alone, for a thousand years chanting through you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This song to the soul of one poor little child.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-child-3" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Child</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>O my father I like not the houses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They will never to me be anything, nor do I like money,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But to mount up there I would like, O father dear, that banner I like,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That pennant I would be and must be.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-father-3" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Father</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Child of mine you fill me with anguish,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be that pennant would be too fearful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Little you know what it is this day, and after this day, forever,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is to gain nothing, but risk and defy everything,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forward to stand in front of wars⁠—and O, such wars!⁠—what have you to do with them?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With passions of demons, slaughter, premature death?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-banner" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Banner</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Demons and death then I sing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Put in all, aye all will I, sword-shaped pennant for war,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And a pleasure new and ecstatic, and the prattled yearning of children,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blent with the sounds of the peaceful land and the liquid wash of the sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the black ships fighting on the sea envelop’d in smoke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the icy cool of the far, far north, with rustling cedars and pines,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the whirr of drums and the sound of soldiers marching, and the hot sun shining south,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the beach-waves combing over the beach on my Eastern shore, and my Western shore the same,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all between those shores, and my ever running Mississippi with bends and chutes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And my Illinois fields, and my Kansas fields, and my fields of Missouri,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Continent, devoting the whole identity without reserving an atom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pour in! whelm that which asks, which sings, with all and the yield of all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fusing and holding, claiming, devouring the whole,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No more with tender lip, nor musical labial sound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But out of the night emerging for good, our voice persuasive no more,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Croaking like crows here in the wind.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-of-the-banner-at-daybreak-poet-4" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Poet</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>My limbs, my veins dilate, my theme is clear at last,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Banner so broad advancing out of the night, I sing you haughty and resolute,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I burst through where I waited long, too long, deafen’d and blinded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My hearing and tongue are come to me, (a little child taught me,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear from above O pennant of war your ironical call and demand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Insensate! insensate! (yet I at any rate chant you,) O banner!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not houses of peace indeed are you, nor any nor all their prosperity, (if need be, you shall again have every one of those houses to destroy them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You thought not to destroy those valuable houses, standing fast, full of comfort, built with money,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May they stand fast, then? not an hour except you above them and all stand fast;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O banner, not money so precious are you, not farm produce you, nor the material good nutriment,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor excellent stores, nor landed on wharves from the ships,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not the superb ships with sail-power or steam-power, fetching and carrying cargoes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor machinery, vehicles, trade, nor revenues⁠—but you as henceforth I see you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Running up out of the night, bringing your cluster of stars, (ever-enlarging stars,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Divider of daybreak you, cutting the air, touch’d by the sun, measuring the sky,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Passionately seen and yearn’d for by one poor little child,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While others remain busy or smartly talking, forever teaching thrift, thrift;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O you up there! O pennant! where you undulate like a snake hissing so curious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out of reach, an idea only, yet furiously fought for, risking bloody death, loved by me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So loved⁠—O you banner leading the day with stars brought from the night!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Valueless, object of eyes, over all and demanding all⁠—(absolute owner of all)⁠—O banner and pennant!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I too leave the rest⁠—great as it is, it is nothing⁠—houses, machines are nothing⁠—I see them not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see but you, O warlike pennant! O banner so broad, with stripes, I sing you only,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flapping up there in the wind.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="rise-o-days-from-your-fathomless-deeps" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rise O Days from Your Fathomless Deeps</h3>
				<section id="rise-o-days-from-your-fathomless-deeps-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Rise O days from your fathomless deeps, till you loftier, fiercer sweep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Long for my soul hungering gymnastic I devour’d what the earth gave me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Long I roam’d the woods of the north, long I watch’d Niagara pouring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I travel’d the prairies over and slept on their breast, I cross’d the Nevadas, I cross’d the plateaus,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I ascended the towering rocks along the Pacific, I sail’d out to sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I sail’d through the storm, I was refresh’d by the storm,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I watch’d with joy the threatening maws of the waves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I mark’d the white combs where they career’d so high, curling over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I heard the wind piping, I saw the black clouds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Saw from below what arose and mounted, (O superb! O wild as my heart, and powerful!)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heard the continuous thunder as it bellow’d after the lightning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Noted the slender and jagged threads of lightning as sudden and fast amid the din they chased each other across the sky;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These, and such as these, I, elate, saw⁠—saw with wonder, yet pensive and masterful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All the menacing might of the globe uprisen around me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet there with my soul I fed, I fed content, supercilious.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="rise-o-days-from-your-fathomless-deeps-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>’Twas well, O soul⁠—’twas a good preparation you gave me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now we advance our latent and ampler hunger to fill,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now we go forth to receive what the earth and the sea never gave us,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not through the mighty woods we go, but through the mightier cities,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Something for us is pouring now more than Niagara pouring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Torrents of men, (sources and rills of the Northwest are you indeed inexhaustible?)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What, to pavements and homesteads here, what were those storms of the mountains and sea?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What, to passions I witness around me to-day? was the sea risen?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was the wind piping the pipe of death under the black clouds?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo! from deeps more unfathomable, something more deadly and savage,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Manhattan rising, advancing with menacing front⁠—Cincinnati, Chicago, unchain’d;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What was that swell I saw on the ocean? behold what comes here,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How it climbs with daring feet and hands⁠—how it dashes!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How the true thunder bellows after the lightning⁠—how bright the flashes of lightning!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How Democracy with desperate vengeful port strides on, shown through the dark by those flashes of lightning!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Yet a mournful wail and low sob I fancied I heard through the dark,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In a lull of the deafening confusion.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="rise-o-days-from-your-fathomless-deeps-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Thunder on! stride on, Democracy! strike with vengeful stroke!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And do you rise higher than ever yet O days, O cities!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crash heavier, heavier yet O storms! you have done me good,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My soul prepared in the mountains absorbs your immortal strong nutriment,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Long had I walk’d my cities, my country roads through farms, only half satisfied,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One doubt nauseous undulating like a snake, crawl’d on the ground before me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Continually preceding my steps, turning upon me oft, ironically hissing low;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The cities I loved so well I abandon’d and left, I sped to the certainties suitable to me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hungering, hungering, hungering, for primal energies and Nature’s dauntlessness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I refresh’d myself with it only, I could relish it only,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I waited the bursting forth of the pent fire⁠—on the water and air I waited long;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But now I no longer wait, I am fully satisfied, I am glutted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have witness’d the true lightning, I have witness’d my cities electric,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have lived to behold man burst forth and warlike America rise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hence I will seek no more the food of the northern solitary wilds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No more the mountains roam or sail the stormy sea.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="virginiathe-west" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Virginia⁠—The West</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The noble sire fallen on evil days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw with hand uplifted, menacing, brandishing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Memories of old in abeyance, love and faith in abeyance,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The insane knife toward the Mother of All.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The noble son on sinewy feet advancing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw, out of the land of prairies, land of Ohio’s waters and of Indiana,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the rescue the stalwart giant hurry his plenteous offspring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drest in blue, bearing their trusty rifles on their shoulders.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the Mother of All with calm voice speaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to you Rebellious, (I seemed to hear her say,) why strive against me, and why seek my life?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you yourself forever provide to defend me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you provided me Washington⁠—and now these also.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="city-of-ships" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">City of Ships</h3>
				<p>
					<span>City of ships!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(O the black ships! O the fierce ships!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the beautiful sharp-bow’d steam-ships and sail-ships!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>City of the world! (for all races are here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the lands of the earth make contributions here;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>City of the sea! city of hurried and glittering tides!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>City whose gleeful tides continually rush or recede, whirling in and out with eddies and foam!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>City of wharves and stores⁠—city of tall façades of marble and iron!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud and passionate city⁠—mettlesome, mad, extravagant city!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spring up O city⁠—not for peace alone, but be indeed yourself, warlike!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fear not⁠—submit to no models but your own O city!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold me⁠—incarnate me as I have incarnated you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have rejected nothing you offer’d me⁠—whom you adopted I have adopted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good or bad I never question you⁠—I love all⁠—I do not condemn anything,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I chant and celebrate all that is yours⁠—yet peace no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In peace I chanted peace, but now the drum of war is mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>War, red war is my song through your streets, O city!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-centenarians-story" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Centenarian’s Story</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">Volunteer of 1861⁠–⁠2, (at Washington Park, Brooklyn, assisting the Centenarian)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Give me your hand old Revolutionary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hill-top is nigh, but a few steps, (make room gentlemen,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up the path you have follow’d me well, spite of your hundred and extra years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can walk old man, though your eyes are almost done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your faculties serve you, and presently I must have them serve me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rest, while I tell what the crowd around us means,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the plain below recruits are drilling and exercising,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is the camp, one regiment departs to-morrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you hear the officers giving their orders?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you hear the clank of the muskets?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why what comes over you now old man?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why do you tremble and clutch my hand so convulsively?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The troops are but drilling, they are yet surrounded with smiles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around them at hand the well-drest friends and the women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While splendid and warm the afternoon sun shines down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green the midsummer verdure and fresh blows the dallying breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er proud and peaceful cities and arm of the sea between.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But drill and parade are over, they march back to quarters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only hear that approval of hands! hear what a clapping!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As wending the crowds now part and disperse⁠—but we old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not for nothing have I brought you hither⁠—we must remain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You to speak in your turn, and I to listen and tell.</span>
				</p>
				<section id="the-centenarians-story-the-centenarian" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">The Centenarian</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>When I clutch’d your hand it was not with terror,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But suddenly pouring about me here on every side,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And below there where the boys were drilling, and up the slopes they ran,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And where tents are pitch’d, and wherever you see south and south-east and south-west,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over hills, across lowlands, and in the skirts of woods,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And along the shores, in mire (now fill’d over) came again and suddenly raged,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As eighty-five years a-gone no mere parade receiv’d with applause of friends,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But a battle which I took part in myself⁠—aye, long ago as it is, I took part in it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Walking then this hilltop, this same ground.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Aye, this is the ground,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My blind eyes even as I speak behold it re-peopled from graves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The years recede, pavements and stately houses disappear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rude forts appear again, the old hoop’d guns are mounted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the lines of rais’d earth stretching from river to bay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I mark the vista of waters, I mark the uplands and slopes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here we lay encamp’d, it was this time in summer also.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>As I talk I remember all, I remember the Declaration,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It was read here, the whole army paraded, it was read to us here,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By his staff surrounded the General stood in the middle, he held up his unsheath’d sword,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It glitter’d in the sun in full sight of the army.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>’Twas a bold act then⁠—the English war-ships had just arrived,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We could watch down the lower bay where they lay at anchor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the transports swarming with soldiers.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A few days more and they landed, and then the battle.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Twenty thousand were brought against us,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A veteran force furnish’d with good artillery.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I tell not now the whole of the battle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But one brigade early in the forenoon order’d forward to engage the red-coats,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of that brigade I tell, and how steadily it march’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how long and well it stood confronting death.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Who do you think that was marching steadily sternly confronting death?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It was the brigade of the youngest men, two thousand strong,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rais’d in Virginia and Maryland, and most of them known personally to the General.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Jauntily forward they went with quick step toward Gowanus’ waters,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Till of a sudden unlook’d for by defiles through the woods, gain’d at night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The British advancing, rounding in from the east, fiercely playing their guns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That brigade of the youngest was cut off and at the enemy’s mercy.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The General watch’d them from this hill,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They made repeated desperate attempts to burst their environment,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then drew close together, very compact, their flag flying in the middle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But O from the hills how the cannon were thinning and thinning them!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It sickens me yet, that slaughter!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw the moisture gather in drops on the face of the General.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw how he wrung his hands in anguish.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Meanwhile the British manoeuvr’d to draw us out for a pitch’d battle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But we dared not trust the chances of a pitch’d battle.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>We fought the fight in detachments,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sallying forth we fought at several points, but in each the luck was against us,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our foe advancing, steadily getting the best of it, push’d us back to the works on this hill,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Till we turn’d menacing here, and then he left us.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>That was the going out of the brigade of the youngest men, two thousand strong,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Few return’d, nearly all remain in Brooklyn.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>That and here my General’s first battle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No women looking on nor sunshine to bask in, it did not conclude with applause,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nobody clapp’d hands here then.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But in darkness in mist on the ground under a chill rain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wearied that night we lay foil’d and sullen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While scornfully laugh’d many an arrogant lord off against us encamp’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Quite within hearing, feasting, clinking wineglasses together over their victory.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>So dull and damp and another day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the night of that, mist lifting, rain ceasing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Silent as a ghost while they thought they were sure of him, my General retreated.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I saw him at the river-side,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down by the ferry lit by torches, hastening the embarcation;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My General waited till the soldiers and wounded were all pass’d over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then, (it was just ere sunrise,) these eyes rested on him for the last time.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Every one else seem’d fill’d with gloom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Many no doubt thought of capitulation.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But when my General pass’d me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As he stood in his boat and look’d toward the coming sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw something different from capitulation.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-centenarians-story-terminus" epub:type="part">
					<header class="speaker">
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Terminus</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Enough, the Centenarian’s story ends,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The two, the past and present, have interchanged,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I myself as connecter, as chansonnier of a great future, am now speaking.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And is this the ground Washington trod?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And these waters I listlessly daily cross, are these the waters he cross’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As resolute in defeat as other generals in their proudest triumphs?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I must copy the story, and send it eastward and westward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I must preserve that look as it beam’d on you rivers of Brooklyn.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>See⁠—as the annual round returns the phantoms return,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is the 27th of August and the British have landed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The battle begins and goes against us, behold through the smoke Washington’s face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The brigade of Virginia and Maryland have march’d forth to intercept the enemy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They are cut off, murderous artillery from the hills plays upon them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rank after rank falls, while over them silently droops the flag,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Baptized that day in many a young man’s bloody wounds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In death, defeat, and sisters’, mothers’ tears.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ah, hills and slopes of Brooklyn! I perceive you are more valuable than your owners supposed;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the midst of you stands an encampment very old,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stands forever the camp of that dead brigade.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="cavalry-crossing-a-ford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Cavalry Crossing a Ford</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A line in long array where they wind betwixt green islands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They take a serpentine course, their arms flash in the sun⁠—hark to the musical clank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold the silvery river, in it the splashing horses loitering stop to drink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold the brown-faced men, each group, each person a picture, the negligent rest on the saddles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some emerge on the opposite bank, others are just entering the ford⁠—while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scarlet and blue and snowy white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The guidon flags flutter gayly in the wind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bivouac-on-a-mountain-side" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bivouac on a Mountain Side</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I see before me now a traveling army halting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Below a fertile valley spread, with barns and the orchards of summer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind, the terraced sides of a mountain, abrupt, in places rising high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broken, with rocks, with clinging cedars, with tall shapes dingily seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The numerous camp-fires scatter’d near and far, some away up on the mountain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shadowy forms of men and horses, looming, large-sized, flickering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And over all the sky⁠—the sky! far, far out of reach, studded, breaking out, the eternal stars.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-army-corps-on-the-march" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Army Corps on the March</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With its cloud of skirmishers in advance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With now the sound of a single shot snapping like a whip, and now an irregular volley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The swarming ranks press on and on, the dense brigades press on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glittering dimly, toiling under the sun⁠—the dust-cover’d men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In columns rise and fall to the undulations of the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With artillery interspers’d⁠—the wheels rumble, the horses sweat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the army corps advances.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="by-the-bivouacs-fitful-flame" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">By the Bivouac’s Fitful Flame</h3>
				<p>
					<span>By the bivouac’s fitful flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A procession winding around me, solemn and sweet and slow⁠—but first I note,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tents of the sleeping army, the fields’ and woods’ dim outline,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The darkness lit by spots of kindled fire, the silence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a phantom far or near an occasional figure moving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shrubs and trees, (as I lift my eyes they seem to be stealthily watching me,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While wind in procession thoughts, O tender and wondrous thoughts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of life and death, of home and the past and loved, and of those that are far away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A solemn and slow procession there as I sit on the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the bivouac’s fitful flame.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="come-up-from-the-fields-father" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Come Up from the Fields Father</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come up from the fields father, here’s a letter from our Pete,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And come to the front door mother, here’s a letter from thy dear son.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo, ’tis autumn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, where the trees, deeper green, yellower and redder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cool and sweeten Ohio’s villages with leaves fluttering in the moderate wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where apples ripe in the orchards hang and grapes on the trellis’d vines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Smell you the smell of the grapes on the vines?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smell you the buckwheat where the bees were lately buzzing?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Above all, lo, the sky so calm, so transparent after the rain, and with wondrous clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Below too, all calm, all vital and beautiful, and the farm prospers well.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down in the fields all prospers well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now from the fields come father, come at the daughter’s call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And come to the entry mother, to the front door come right away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fast as she can she hurries, something ominous, her steps trembling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She does not tarry to smooth her hair nor adjust her cap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Open the envelope quickly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O this is not our son’s writing, yet his name is sign’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O a strange hand writes for our dear son, O stricken mother’s soul!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All swims before her eyes, flashes with black, she catches the main words only,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sentences broken, <q>gunshot wound in the breast, cavalry skirmish, taken to hospital,</q></span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>At present low, but will soon be better.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah now the single figure to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid all teeming and wealthy Ohio with all its cities and farms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sickly white in the face and dull in the head, very faint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the jamb of a door leans.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><q>Grieve not so, dear mother,</q> (the just-grown daughter speaks through her sobs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little sisters huddle around speechless and dismay’d,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>See, dearest mother, the letter says Pete will soon be better.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas poor boy, he will never be better, (nor may-be needs to be better, that brave and simple soul,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While they stand at home at the door he is dead already,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only son is dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the mother needs to be better,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She with thin form presently drest in black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By day her meals untouch’d, then at night fitfully sleeping, often waking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the midnight waking, weeping, longing with one deep longing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O that she might withdraw unnoticed, silent from life escape and withdraw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To follow, to seek, to be with her dear dead son.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="vigil-strange-i-kept-on-the-field-one-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Vigil Strange I Kept on the Field One Night</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Vigil strange I kept on the field one night;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you my son and my comrade dropt at my side that day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One look I but gave which your dear eyes return’d with a look I shall never forget,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One touch of your hand to mine O boy, reach’d up as you lay on the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then onward I sped in the battle, the even-contested battle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till late in the night reliev’d to the place at last again I made my way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found you in death so cold dear comrade, found your body son of responding kisses, (never again on earth responding,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bared your face in the starlight, curious the scene, cool blew the moderate night-wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long there and then in vigil I stood, dimly around me the battlefield spreading,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vigil wondrous and vigil sweet there in the fragrant silent night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not a tear fell, not even a long-drawn sigh, long, long I gazed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then on the earth partially reclining sat by your side leaning my chin in my hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passing sweet hours, immortal and mystic hours with you dearest comrade⁠—not a tear, not a word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vigil of silence, love and death, vigil for you my son and my soldier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As onward silently stars aloft, eastward new ones upward stole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vigil final for you brave boy, (I could not save you, swift was your death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I faithfully loved you and cared for you living, I think we shall surely meet again,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till at latest lingering of the night, indeed just as the dawn appear’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My comrade I wrapt in his blanket, envelop’d well his form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Folded the blanket well, tucking it carefully over head and carefully under feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there and then and bathed by the rising sun, my son in his grave, in his rude-dug grave I deposited,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ending my vigil strange with that, vigil of night and battle-field dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vigil for boy of responding kisses, (never again on earth responding,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vigil for comrade swiftly slain, vigil I never forget, how as day brighten’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I rose from the chill ground and folded my soldier well in his blanket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And buried him where he fell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-march-in-the-ranks-hard-prest-and-the-road-unknown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A March in the Ranks Hard-Prest, and the Road Unknown</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A march in the ranks hard-prest, and the road unknown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A route through a heavy wood with muffled steps in the darkness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our army foil’d with loss severe, and the sullen remnant retreating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till after midnight glimmer upon us the lights of a dim-lighted building,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We come to an open space in the woods, and halt by the dim-lighted building,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis a large old church at the crossing roads, now an impromptu hospital,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entering but for a minute I see a sight beyond all the pictures and poems ever made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shadows of deepest, deepest black, just lit by moving candles and lamps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by one great pitchy torch stationary with wild red flame and clouds of smoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By these, crowds, groups of forms vaguely I see on the floor, some in the pews laid down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At my feet more distinctly a soldier, a mere lad, in danger of bleeding to death, (he is shot in the abdomen,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stanch the blood temporarily, (the youngster’s face is white as a lily,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then before I depart I sweep my eyes o’er the scene fain to absorb it all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faces, varieties, postures beyond description, most in obscurity, some of them dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surgeons operating, attendants holding lights, the smell of ether, the odor of blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crowd, O the crowd of the bloody forms, the yard outside also fill’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some on the bare ground, some on planks or stretchers, some in the death-spasm sweating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An occasional scream or cry, the doctor’s shouted orders or calls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glisten of the little steel instruments catching the glint of the torches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These I resume as I chant, I see again the forms, I smell the odor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then hear outside the orders given, <q>Fall in, my men, fall in;</q></span>
					<br/>
					<span>But first I bend to the dying lad, his eyes open, a half-smile gives he me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the eyes close, calmly close, and I speed forth to the darkness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resuming, marching, ever in darkness marching, on in the ranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unknown road still marching.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-sight-in-camp-in-the-daybreak-gray-and-dim" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Sight in Camp in the Daybreak Gray and Dim</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A sight in camp in the daybreak gray and dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As from my tent I emerge so early sleepless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As slow I walk in the cool fresh air the path near by the hospital tent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three forms I see on stretchers lying, brought out there untended lying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over each the blanket spread, ample brownish woolen blanket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gray and heavy blanket, folding, covering all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Curious I halt and silent stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then with light fingers I from the face of the nearest the first just lift the blanket;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who are you elderly man so gaunt and grim, with well-gray’d hair, and flesh all sunken about the eyes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who are you my dear comrade?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to the second I step⁠—and who are you my child and darling?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who are you sweet boy with cheeks yet blooming?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to the third⁠—a face nor child nor old, very calm, as of beautiful yellow-white ivory;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young man I think I know you⁠—I think this face is the face of the Christ himself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dead and divine and brother of all, and here again he lies.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="as-toilsome-i-wanderd-virginias-woods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">As Toilsome I Wander’d Virginia’s Woods</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As toilsome I wander’d Virginia’s woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the music of rustling leaves kick’d by my feet, (for ’twas autumn,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mark’d at the foot of a tree the grave of a soldier;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mortally wounded he and buried on the retreat, (easily all could I understand,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The halt of a mid-day hour, when up! no time to lose⁠—yet this sign left,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a tablet scrawl’d and nail’d on the tree by the grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Bold, cautious, true, and my loving comrade.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long, long I muse, then on my way go wandering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a changeful season to follow, and many a scene of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet at times through changeful season and scene, abrupt, alone, or in the crowded street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comes before me the unknown soldier’s grave, comes the inscription rude in Virginia’s woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Bold, cautious, true, and my loving comrade.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="not-the-pilot" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Not the Pilot</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not the pilot has charged himself to bring his ship into port, though beaten back and many times baffled;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the pathfinder penetrating inland weary and long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By deserts parch’d, snows chill’d, rivers wet, perseveres till he reaches his destination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More than I have charged myself, heeded or unheeded, to compose a march for these States,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a battle-call, rousing to arms if need be, years, centuries hence.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="year-that-trembled-and-reeld-beneath-me" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Year That Trembled and Reel’d Beneath Me</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Year that trembled and reel’d beneath me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your summer wind was warm enough, yet the air I breathed froze me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thick gloom fell through the sunshine and darken’d me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must I change my triumphant songs? said I to myself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must I indeed learn to chant the cold dirges of the baffled?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sullen hymns of defeat?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wound-dresser" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Wound-Dresser</h3>
				<section id="the-wound-dresser-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>An old man bending I come among new faces,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Years looking backward resuming in answer to children,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come tell us old man, as from young men and maidens that love me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Arous’d and angry, I’d thought to beat the alarum, and urge relentless war,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But soon my fingers fail’d me, my face droop’d and I resign’d myself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To sit by the wounded and soothe them, or silently watch the dead;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Years hence of these scenes, of these furious passions, these chances,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of unsurpass’d heroes, (was one side so brave? the other was equally brave;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now be witness again, paint the mightiest armies of earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of those armies so rapid so wondrous what saw you to tell us?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What stays with you latest and deepest? of curious panics,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of hard-fought engagements or sieges tremendous what deepest remains?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-wound-dresser-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>O maidens and young men I love and that love me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What you ask of my days those the strangest and sudden your talking recalls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Soldier alert I arrive after a long march cover’d with sweat and dust,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the nick of time I come, plunge in the fight, loudly shout in the rush of successful charge,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Enter the captur’d works⁠—yet lo, like a swift-running river they fade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pass and are gone they fade⁠—I dwell not on soldiers’ perils or soldiers’ joys,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Both I remember well⁠—many the hardships, few the joys, yet I was content.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But in silence, in dreams’ projections,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While the world of gain and appearance and mirth goes on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So soon what is over forgotten, and waves wash the imprints off the sand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With hinged knees returning I enter the doors, (while for you up there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whoever you are, follow without noise and be of strong heart.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Bearing the bandages, water and sponge,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Straight and swift to my wounded I go,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where they lie on the ground after the battle brought in,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where their priceless blood reddens the grass the ground,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or to the rows of the hospital tent, or under the roof’d hospital,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the long rows of cots up and down each side I return,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To each and all one after another I draw near, not one do I miss,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An attendant follows holding a tray, he carries a refuse pail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Soon to be fill’d with clotted rags and blood, emptied, and fill’d again.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I onward go, I stop,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With hinged knees and steady hand to dress wounds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am firm with each, the pangs are sharp yet unavoidable,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One turns to me his appealing eyes⁠—poor boy! I never knew you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet I think I could not refuse this moment to die for you, if that would save you.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-wound-dresser-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>On, on I go, (open doors of time! open hospital doors!)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crush’d head I dress, (poor crazed hand tear not the bandage away,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The neck of the cavalry-man with the bullet through and through I examine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hard the breathing rattles, quite glazed already the eye, yet life struggles hard,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Come sweet death! be persuaded O beautiful death!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In mercy come quickly.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From the stump of the arm, the amputated hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I undo the clotted lint, remove the slough, wash off the matter and blood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Back on his pillow the soldier bends with curv’d neck and side falling head,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His eyes are closed, his face is pale, he dares not look on the bloody stump,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And has not yet look’d on it.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I dress a wound in the side, deep, deep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But a day or two more, for see the frame all wasted and sinking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the yellow-blue countenance see.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I dress the perforated shoulder, the foot with the bullet-wound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cleanse the one with a gnawing and putrid gangrene, so sickening, so offensive,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While the attendant stands behind aside me holding the tray and pail.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I am faithful, I do not give out,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fractur’d thigh, the knee, the wound in the abdomen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These and more I dress with impassive hand, (yet deep in my breast a fire, a burning flame.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-wound-dresser-4" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">4</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Thus in silence in dreams’ projections,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Returning, resuming, I thread my way through the hospitals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hurt and wounded I pacify with soothing hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I sit by the restless all the dark night, some are so young,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some suffer so much, I recall the experience sweet and sad,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Many a soldier’s loving arms about this neck have cross’d and rested,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Many a soldier’s kiss dwells on these bearded lips.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="long-too-long-america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Long, Too Long America</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Long, too long America,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Traveling roads all even and peaceful you learn’d from joys and prosperity only,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now, ah now, to learn from crises of anguish, advancing, grappling with direst fate and recoiling not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now to conceive and show to the world what your children en-masse really are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For who except myself has yet conceiv’d what your children en-masse really are?)</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="give-me-the-splendid-silent-sun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Give Me the Splendid Silent Sun</h3>
				<section id="give-me-the-splendid-silent-sun-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams full-dazzling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me juicy autumnal fruit ripe and red from the orchard,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me a field where the unmow’d grass grows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me an arbor, give me the trellis’d grape,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me fresh corn and wheat, give me serene-moving animals teaching content,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me nights perfectly quiet as on high plateaus west of the Mississippi, and I looking up at the stars,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me odorous at sunrise a garden of beautiful flowers where I can walk undisturb’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me for marriage a sweet-breath’d woman of whom I should never tire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me a perfect child, give me away aside from the noise of the world a rural domestic life,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me to warble spontaneous songs recluse by myself, for my own ears only,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me solitude, give me Nature, give me again O Nature your primal sanities!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>These demanding to have them, (tired with ceaseless excitement, and rack’d by the war-strife,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These to procure incessantly asking, rising in cries from my heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While yet incessantly asking still I adhere to my city,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Day upon day and year upon year O city, walking your streets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where you hold me enchain’d a certain time refusing to give me up,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet giving to make me glutted, enrich’d of soul, you give me forever faces;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(O I see what I sought to escape, confronting, reversing my cries,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see my own soul trampling down what it ask’d for.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="give-me-the-splendid-silent-sun-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Keep your splendid silent sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Keep your woods O Nature, and the quiet places by the woods,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Keep your fields of clover and timothy, and your corn-fields and orchards,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Keep the blossoming buckwheat fields where the Ninth-month bees hum;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me faces and streets⁠—give me these phantoms incessant and endless along the trottoirs!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me interminable eyes⁠—give me women⁠—give me comrades and lovers by the thousand!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let me see new ones every day⁠—let me hold new ones by the hand every day!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me such shows⁠—give me the streets of Manhattan!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me Broadway, with the soldiers marching⁠—give me the sound of the trumpets and drums!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(The soldiers in companies or regiments⁠—some starting away, flush’d and reckless,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some, their time up, returning with thinn’d ranks, young, yet very old, worn, marching, noticing nothing;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me the shores and wharves heavy-fringed with black ships!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O such for me! O an intense life, full to repletion and varied!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The life of the theatre, bar-room, huge hotel, for me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The saloon of the steamer! the crowded excursion for me! the torchlight procession!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dense brigade bound for the war, with high piled military wagons following;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>People, endless, streaming, with strong voices, passions, pageants,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Manhattan streets with their powerful throbs, with beating drums as now,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The endless and noisy chorus, the rustle and clank of muskets, (even the sight of the wounded,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Manhattan crowds, with their turbulent musical chorus!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Manhattan faces and eyes forever for me.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="dirge-for-two-veterans" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Dirge for Two Veterans</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The last sunbeam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lightly falls from the finish’d Sabbath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the pavement here, and there beyond it is looking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Down a new-made double grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Lo, the moon ascending,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up from the east the silvery round moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beautiful over the house-tops, ghastly, phantom moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Immense and silent moon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">I see a sad procession,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I hear the sound of coming full-key’d bugles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the channels of the city streets they’re flooding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As with voices and with tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">I hear the great drums pounding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the small drums steady whirring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every blow of the great convulsive drums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strikes me through and through.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">For the son is brought with the father,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(In the foremost ranks of the fierce assault they fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two veterans son and father dropt together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the double grave awaits them.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Now nearer blow the bugles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the drums strike more convulsive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the daylight o’er the pavement quite has faded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the strong dead-march enwraps me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">In the eastern sky up-buoying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sorrowful vast phantom moves illumin’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(’Tis some mother’s large transparent face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In heaven brighter growing.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">O strong dead-march you please me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O moon immense with your silvery face you soothe me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O my soldiers twain! O my veterans passing to burial!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What I have I also give you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The moon gives you light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bugles and the drums give you music,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my heart, O my soldiers, my veterans,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My heart gives you love.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="over-the-carnage-rose-prophetic-a-voice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Over the Carnage Rose Prophetic a Voice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Over the carnage rose prophetic a voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be not dishearten’d, affection shall solve the problems of freedom yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those who love each other shall become invincible,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall yet make Columbia victorious.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sons of the Mother of All, you shall yet be victorious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall yet laugh to scorn the attacks of all the remainder of the earth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No danger shall balk Columbia’s lovers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If need be a thousand shall sternly immolate themselves for one.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One from Massachusetts shall be a Missourian’s comrade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Maine and from hot Carolina, and another an Oregonese, shall be friends triune,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More precious to each other than all the riches of the earth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To Michigan, Florida perfumes shall tenderly come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the perfumes of flowers, but sweeter, and wafted beyond death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It shall be customary in the houses and streets to see manly affection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The most dauntless and rude shall touch face to face lightly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dependence of Liberty shall be lovers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The continuance of Equality shall be comrades.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>These shall tie you and band you stronger than hoops of iron,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, ecstatic, O partners! O lands! with the love of lovers tie you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Were you looking to be held together by lawyers?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or by an agreement on a paper? or by arms?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, nor the world, nor any living thing, will so cohere.)</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="i-saw-old-general-at-bay" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">I Saw Old General at Bay</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw old General at bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Old as he was, his gray eyes yet shone out in battle like stars,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His small force was now completely hemm’d in, in his works,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He call’d for volunteers to run the enemy’s lines, a desperate emergency,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw a hundred and more step forth from the ranks, but two or three were selected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw them receive their orders aside, they listen’d with care, the adjutant was very grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw them depart with cheerfulness, freely risking their lives.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-artillerymans-vision" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Artilleryman’s Vision</h3>
				<p>
					<span>While my wife at my side lies slumbering, and the wars are over long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my head on the pillow rests at home, and the vacant midnight passes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And through the stillness, through the dark, I hear, just hear, the breath of my infant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in the room as I wake from sleep this vision presses upon me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The engagement opens there and then in fantasy unreal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The skirmishers begin, they crawl cautiously ahead, I hear the irregular snap! snap!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear the sounds of the different missiles, the short <q>t-h-t! t-h-t!</q> of the rifle-balls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the shells exploding leaving small white clouds, I hear the great shells shrieking as they pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grape like the hum and whirr of wind through the trees, (tumultuous now the contest rages,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the scenes at the batteries rise in detail before me again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crashing and smoking, the pride of the men in their pieces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chief-gunner ranges and sights his piece and selects a fuse of the right time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After firing I see him lean aside and look eagerly off to note the effect;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elsewhere I hear the cry of a regiment charging, (the young colonel leads himself this time with brandish’d sword,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the gaps cut by the enemy’s volleys, (quickly fill’d up, no delay,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I breathe the suffocating smoke, then the flat clouds hover low concealing all;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now a strange lull for a few seconds, not a shot fired on either side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then resumed the chaos louder than ever, with eager calls and orders of officers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While from some distant part of the field the wind wafts to my ears a shout of applause, (some special success,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever the sound of the cannon far or near, (rousing even in dreams a devilish exultation and all the old mad joy in the depths of my soul,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever the hastening of infantry shifting positions, batteries, cavalry, moving hither and thither,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The falling, dying, I heed not, the wounded dripping and red I heed not, some to the rear are hobbling,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grime, heat, rush, aides-de-camp galloping by or on a full run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the patter of small arms, the warning <q>s-s-t</q> of the rifles, (these in my vision I hear or see,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bombs bursting in air, and at night the vari-color’d rockets.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ethiopia-saluting-the-colors" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ethiopia Saluting the Colors</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Who are you dusky woman, so ancient hardly human,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With your woolly-white and turban’d head, and bare bony feet?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why rising by the roadside here, do you the colors greet?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(’Tis while our army lines Carolina’s sands and pines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forth from thy hovel door thou Ethiopia com’st to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As under doughty Sherman I march toward the sea.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Me master years a hundred since from my parents sunder’d,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>A little child, they caught me as the savage beast is caught,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Then hither me across the sea the cruel slaver brought.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No further does she say, but lingering all the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her high-borne turban’d head she wags, and rolls her darkling eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And courtesies to the regiments, the guidons moving by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What is it fateful woman, so blear, hardly human?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why wag your head with turban bound, yellow, red and green?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are the things so strange and marvelous you see or have seen?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="not-youth-pertains-to-me" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Not Youth Pertains to Me</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not youth pertains to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor delicatesse, I cannot beguile the time with talk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awkward in the parlor, neither a dancer nor elegant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the learn’d coterie sitting constrain’d and still, for learning inures not to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beauty, knowledge, inure not to me⁠—yet there are two or three things inure to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have nourish’d the wounded and sooth’d many a dying soldier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at intervals waiting or in the midst of camp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Composed these songs.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="race-of-veterans" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Race of Veterans</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Race of veterans⁠—race of victors!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Race of the soil, ready for conflict⁠—race of the conquering march!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(No more credulity’s race, abiding-temper’d race,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Race henceforth owning no law but the law of itself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Race of passion and the storm.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="world-take-good-notice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">World Take Good Notice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>World take good notice, silver stars fading,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Milky hue ript, weft of white detaching,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coals thirty-eight, baleful and burning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scarlet, significant, hands off warning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now and henceforth flaunt from these shores.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="o-tan-faced-prairie-boy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">O Tan-Faced Prairie-Boy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O tan-faced prairie-boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before you came to camp came many a welcome gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Praises and presents came and nourishing food, till at last among the recruits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You came, taciturn, with nothing to give⁠—we but look’d on each other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When lo! more than all the gifts of the world you gave me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="look-down-fair-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Look Down Fair Moon</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Look down fair moon and bathe this scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour softly down night’s nimbus floods on faces ghastly, swollen, purple,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the dead on their backs with arms toss’d wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour down your unstinted nimbus sacred moon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reconciliation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reconciliation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Word over all, beautiful as the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beautiful that war and all its deeds of carnage must in time be utterly lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the hands of the sisters Death and Night incessantly softly wash again, and ever again, this soil’d world;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my enemy is dead, a man divine as myself is dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I look where he lies white-faced and still in the coffin⁠—I draw near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bend down and touch lightly with my lips the white face in the coffin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="how-solemn-as-one-by-one" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">How Solemn as One by One</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Washington City, 1865)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>How solemn as one by one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the ranks returning worn and sweaty, as the men file by where I stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the faces the masks appear, as I glance at the faces studying the masks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As I glance upward out of this page studying you, dear friend, whoever you are,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How solemn the thought of my whispering soul to each in the ranks, and to you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see behind each mask that wonder a kindred soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the bullet could never kill what you really are, dear friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the bayonet stab what you really are;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul! yourself I see, great as any, good as the best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waiting secure and content, which the bullet could never kill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the bayonet stab O friend.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="as-i-lay-with-my-head-in-your-lap-camerado" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">As I Lay with My Head in Your Lap Camerado</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As I lay with my head in your lap camerado,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The confession I made I resume, what I said to you and the open air I resume,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know I am restless and make others so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know my words are weapons full of danger, full of death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I confront peace, security, and all the settled laws, to unsettle them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am more resolute because all have denied me than I could ever have been had all accepted me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heed not and have never heeded either experience, cautions, majorities, nor ridicule,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the threat of what is call’d hell is little or nothing to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lure of what is call’d heaven is little or nothing to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear camerado! I confess I have urged you onward with me, and still urge you, without the least idea what is our destination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or whether we shall be victorious, or utterly quell’d and defeated.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="delicate-cluster" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Delicate Cluster</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Delicate cluster! flag of teeming life!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Covering all my lands⁠—all my seashores lining!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flag of death! (how I watch’d you through the smoke of battle pressing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I heard you flap and rustle, cloth defiant!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flag cerulean⁠—sunny flag, with the orbs of night dappled!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah my silvery beauty⁠—ah my woolly white and crimson!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah to sing the song of you, my matron mighty!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My sacred one, my mother!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-certain-civilian" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Certain Civilian</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Did you ask dulcet rhymes from me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did you seek the civilian’s peaceful and languishing rhymes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did you find what I sang erewhile so hard to follow?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why I was not singing erewhile for you to follow, to understand⁠—nor am I now;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I have been born of the same as the war was born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The drum-corps’ rattle is ever to me sweet music, I love well the martial dirge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With slow wail and convulsive throb leading the officer’s funeral;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What to such as you anyhow such a poet as I? therefore leave my works,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And go lull yourself with what you can understand, and with piano-tunes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I lull nobody, and you will never understand me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lo-victress-on-the-peaks" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lo, Victress on the Peaks</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lo, Victress on the peaks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where thou with mighty brow regarding the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The world O Libertad, that vainly conspired against thee,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of its countless beleaguering toils, after thwarting them all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dominant, with the dazzling sun around thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flauntest now unharm’d in immortal soundness and bloom⁠—lo, in these hours supreme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No poem proud, I chanting bring to thee, nor mastery’s rapturous verse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a cluster containing night’s darkness and blood-dripping wounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And psalms of the dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spirit-whose-work-is-done" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Spirit Whose Work Is Done</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Washington City, 1865)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Spirit whose work is done⁠—spirit of dreadful hours!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere departing fade from my eyes your forests of bayonets;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spirit of gloomiest fears and doubts, (yet onward ever unfaltering pressing,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spirit of many a solemn day and many a savage scene⁠—electric spirit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That with muttering voice through the war now closed, like a tireless phantom flitted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rousing the land with breath of flame, while you beat and beat the drum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now as the sound of the drum, hollow and harsh to the last, reverberates round me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As your ranks, your immortal ranks, return, return from the battles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the muskets of the young men yet lean over their shoulders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I look on the bayonets bristling over their shoulders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As those slanted bayonets, whole forests of them appearing in the distance, approach and pass on, returning homeward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moving with steady motion, swaying to and fro to the right and left,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evenly, lightly rising and falling while the steps keep time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spirit of hours I knew, all hectic red one day, but pale as death next day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touch my mouth ere you depart, press my lips close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leave me your pulses of rage⁠—bequeath them to me⁠—fill me with currents convulsive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them scorch and blister out of my chants when you are gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them identify you to the future in these songs.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="adieu-to-a-soldier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Adieu to a Soldier</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Adieu O soldier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You of the rude campaigning, (which we shared,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rapid march, the life of the camp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hot contention of opposing fronts, the long manoeuvre,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red battles with their slaughter, the stimulus, the strong terrific game,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spell of all brave and manly hearts, the trains of time through you and like of you all fill’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With war and war’s expression.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Adieu dear comrade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mission is fulfill’d⁠—but I, more warlike,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself and this contentious soul of mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still on our own campaigning bound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through untried roads with ambushes opponents lined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through many a sharp defeat and many a crisis, often baffled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here marching, ever marching on, a war fight out⁠—aye here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fiercer, weightier battles give expression.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="turn-o-libertad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Turn O Libertad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Turn O Libertad, for the war is over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From it and all henceforth expanding, doubting no more, resolute, sweeping the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turn from lands retrospective recording proofs of the past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the singers that sing the trailing glories of the past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the chants of the feudal world, the triumphs of kings, slavery, caste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turn to the world, the triumphs reserv’d and to come⁠—give up that backward world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leave to the singers of hitherto, give them the trailing past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what remains remains for singers for you⁠—wars to come are for you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Lo, how the wars of the past have duly inured to you, and the wars of the present also inure;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then turn, and be not alarm’d O Libertad⁠—turn your undying face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where the future, greater than all the past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is swiftly, surely preparing for you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-the-leavend-soil-they-trod" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To the Leaven’d Soil They Trod</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To the leaven’d soil they trod calling I sing for the last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Forth from my tent emerging for good, loosing, untying the tent-ropes,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the freshness the forenoon air, in the far-stretching circuits and vistas again to peace restored,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the fiery fields emanative and the endless vistas beyond, to the South and the North,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the leaven’d soil of the general Western world to attest my songs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the Alleghanian hills and the tireless Mississippi,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the rocks I calling sing, and all the trees in the woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the plains of the poems of heroes, to the prairies spreading wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the far-off sea and the unseen winds, and the sane impalpable air;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And responding they answer all, (but not in words,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The average earth, the witness of war and peace, acknowledges mutely,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The prairie draws me close, as the father to bosom broad the son,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Northern ice and rain that began me nourish me to the end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the hot sun of the South is to fully ripen my songs.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
