<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>From Noon to Starry Night</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="from-noon-to-starry-night" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">From Noon to Starry Night</h2>
			<article id="thou-orb-aloft-full-dazzling" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thou Orb Aloft Full-Dazzling</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thou orb aloft full-dazzling! thou hot October noon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flooding with sheeny light the gray beach sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sibilant near sea with vistas far and foam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tawny streaks and shades and spreading blue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O sun of noon refulgent! my special word to thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hear me illustrious!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy lover me, for always I have loved thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as basking babe, then happy boy alone by some wood edge, thy touching-distant beams enough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or man matured, or young or old, as now to thee I launch my invocation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Thou canst not with thy dumbness me deceive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know before the fitting man all Nature yields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though answering not in words, the skies, trees, hear his voice⁠—and thou O sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As for thy throes, thy perturbations, sudden breaks and shafts of flame gigantic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I understand them, I know those flames, those perturbations well.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou that with fructifying heat and light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er myriad farms, o’er lands and waters North and South,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er Mississippi’s endless course, o’er Texas’ grassy plains, Kanada’s woods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er all the globe that turns its face to thee shining in space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou that impartially infoldest all, not only continents, seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou that to grapes and weeds and little wild flowers givest so liberally,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shed, shed thyself on mine and me, with but a fleeting ray out of thy million millions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strike through these chants.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor only launch thy subtle dazzle and thy strength for these,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prepare the later afternoon of me myself⁠—prepare my lengthening shadows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prepare my starry nights.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="faces" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Faces</h3>
				<section id="faces-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Sauntering the pavement or riding the country by-road, lo, such faces!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Faces of friendship, precision, caution, suavity, ideality,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The spiritual-prescient face, the always welcome common benevolent face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The face of the singing of music, the grand faces of natural lawyers and judges broad at the back-top,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The faces of hunters and fishers bulged at the brows, the shaved blanch’d faces of orthodox citizens,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The pure, extravagant, yearning, questioning artist’s face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ugly face of some beautiful soul, the handsome detested or despised face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sacred faces of infants, the illuminated face of the mother of many children,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The face of an amour, the face of veneration,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The face as of a dream, the face of an immobile rock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The face withdrawn of its good and bad, a castrated face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wild hawk, his wings clipp’d by the clipper,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A stallion that yielded at last to the thongs and knife of the gelder.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Sauntering the pavement thus, or crossing the ceaseless ferry, faces and faces and faces,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see them and complain not, and am content with all.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="faces-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Do you suppose I could be content with all if I thought them their own finalè?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This now is too lamentable a face for a man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some abject louse asking leave to be, cringing for it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some milk-nosed maggot blessing what lets it wrig to its hole.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This face is a dog’s snout sniffing for garbage,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Snakes nest in that mouth, I hear the sibilant threat.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This face is a haze more chill than the arctic sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its sleepy and wabbling icebergs crunch as they go.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This is a face of bitter herbs, this an emetic, they need no label,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And more of the drug-shelf, laudanum, caoutchouc, or hog’s-lard.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This face is an epilepsy, its wordless tongue gives out the unearthly cry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its veins down the neck distend, its eyes roll till they show nothing but their whites,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Its teeth grit, the palms of the hands are cut by the turn’d-in nails,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The man falls struggling and foaming to the ground, while he speculates well.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This face is bitten by vermin and worms,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And this is some murderer’s knife with a half-pull’d scabbard.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This face owes to the sexton his dismalest fee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>An unceasing death-bell tolls there.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="faces-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Features of my equals would you trick me with your creas’d and cadaverous march?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well, you cannot trick me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I see your rounded never-erased flow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see ’neath the rims of your haggard and mean disguises.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Splay and twist as you like, poke with the tangling fores of fishes or rats,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You’ll be unmuzzled, you certainly will.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I saw the face of the most smear’d and slobbering idiot they had at the asylum,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I knew for my consolation what they knew not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I knew of the agents that emptied and broke my brother,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The same wait to clear the rubbish from the fallen tenement,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I shall look again in a score or two of ages,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I shall meet the real landlord perfect and unharm’d, every inch as good as myself.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="faces-4" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">4</h4>
					<p>
						<span>The Lord advances, and yet advances,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Always the shadow in front, always the reach’d hand bringing up the laggards.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Out of this face emerge banners and horses⁠—O superb! I see what is coming,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the high pioneer-caps, see staves of runners clearing the way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear victorious drums.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This face is a life-boat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This is the face commanding and bearded, it asks no odds of the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This face is flavor’d fruit ready for eating,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This face of a healthy honest boy is the programme of all good.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>These faces bear testimony slumbering or awake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They show their descent from the Master himself.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Off the word I have spoken I except not one⁠—red, white, black, are all deific,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In each house is the ovum, it comes forth after a thousand years.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Spots or cracks at the windows do not disturb me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tall and sufficient stand behind and make signs to me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I read the promise and patiently wait.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>This is a full-grown lily’s face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She speaks to the limber-hipp’d man near the garden pickets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span><q>Come here</q> she blushingly cries, <q>Come nigh to me limber-hipp’d man,</q></span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Stand at my side till I lean as high as I can upon you,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Fill me with albescent honey, bend down to me,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Rub to me with your chafing beard, rub to my breast and shoulders.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="faces-5" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">5</h4>
					<p>
						<span>The old face of the mother of many children,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whist! I am fully content.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Lull’d and late is the smoke of the First-day morning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It hangs low over the rows of trees by the fences,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It hangs thin by the sassafras and wild-cherry and cat-brier under them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I saw the rich ladies in full dress at the soiree,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I heard what the singers were singing so long,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heard who sprang in crimson youth from the white froth and the water-blue.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Behold a woman!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She looks out from her quaker cap, her face is clearer and more beautiful than the sky.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She sits in an armchair under the shaded porch of the farmhouse,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sun just shines on her old white head.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Her ample gown is of cream-hued linen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her grandsons raised the flax, and her grand-daughters spun it with the distaff and the wheel.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The melodious character of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The finish beyond which philosophy cannot go and does not wish to go,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The justified mother of men.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-mystic-trumpeter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Mystic Trumpeter</h3>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Hark, some wild trumpeter, some strange musician,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hovering unseen in air, vibrates capricious tunes to-night.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I hear thee trumpeter, listening alert I catch thy notes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now pouring, whirling like a tempest round me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now low, subdued, now in the distance lost.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Come nearer bodiless one, haply in thee resounds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some dead composer, haply thy pensive life</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was fill’d with aspirations high, unform’d ideals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Waves, oceans musical, chaotically surging,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That now ecstatic ghost, close to me bending, thy cornet echoing, pealing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gives out to no one’s ears but mine, but freely gives to mine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That I may thee translate.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Blow trumpeter free and clear, I follow thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While at thy liquid prelude, glad, serene,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fretting world, the streets, the noisy hours of day withdraw,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A holy calm descends like dew upon me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I walk in cool refreshing night the walks of Paradise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I scent the grass, the moist air and the roses;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy song expands my numb’d imbonded spirit, thou freest, launchest me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Floating and basking upon heaven’s lake.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-4" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">4</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Blow again trumpeter! and for my sensuous eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bring the old pageants, show the feudal world.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>What charm thy music works! thou makest pass before me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ladies and cavaliers long dead, barons are in their castle halls, the troubadours are singing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Arm’d knights go forth to redress wrongs, some in quest of the holy Graal;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the tournament, I see the contestants incased in heavy armor seated on stately champing horses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the shouts, the sounds of blows and smiting steel;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the Crusaders’ tumultuous armies⁠—hark, how the cymbals clang,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, where the monks walk in advance, bearing the cross on high.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-5" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">5</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Blow again trumpeter! and for thy theme,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Take now the enclosing theme of all, the solvent and the setting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love, that is pulse of all, the sustenance and the pang,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The heart of man and woman all for love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No other theme but love⁠—knitting, enclosing, all-diffusing love.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O how the immortal phantoms crowd around me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the vast alembic ever working, I see and know the flames that heat the world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The glow, the blush, the beating hearts of lovers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So blissful happy some, and some so silent, dark, and nigh to death;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love, that is all the earth to lovers⁠—love, that mocks time and space,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love, that is day and night⁠—love, that is sun and moon and stars,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love, that is crimson, sumptuous, sick with perfume,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No other words but words of love, no other thought but love.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-6" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">6</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Blow again trumpeter⁠—conjure war’s alarums.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Swift to thy spell a shuddering hum like distant thunder rolls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, where the arm’d men hasten⁠—lo, mid the clouds of dust the glint of bayonets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the grime-faced cannoneers, I mark the rosy flash amid the smoke, I hear the cracking of the guns;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor war alone⁠—thy fearful music-song, wild player, brings every sight of fear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The deeds of ruthless brigands, rapine, murder⁠—I hear the cries for help!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see ships foundering at sea, I behold on deck and below deck the terrible tableaus.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-7" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">7</h4>
					<p>
						<span>O trumpeter, methinks I am myself the instrument thou playest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou melt’st my heart, my brain⁠—thou movest, drawest, changest them at will;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And now thy sullen notes send darkness through me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou takest away all cheering light, all hope,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the enslaved, the overthrown, the hurt, the opprest of the whole earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I feel the measureless shame and humiliation of my race, it becomes all mine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mine too the revenges of humanity, the wrongs of ages, baffled feuds and hatreds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Utter defeat upon me weighs⁠—all lost⁠—the foe victorious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Yet ’mid the ruins Pride colossal stands unshaken to the last,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Endurance, resolution to the last.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-mystic-trumpeter-8" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">8</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Now trumpeter for thy close,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Vouchsafe a higher strain than any yet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sing to my soul, renew its languishing faith and hope,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rouse up my slow belief, give me some vision of the future,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me for once its prophecy and joy.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O glad, exulting, culminating song!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A vigor more than earth’s is in thy notes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Marches of victory⁠—man disenthral’d⁠—the conqueror at last,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hymns to the universal God from universal man⁠—all joy!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A reborn race appears⁠—a perfect world, all joy!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Women and men in wisdom innocence and health⁠—all joy!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Riotous laughing bacchanals fill’d with joy!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>War, sorrow, suffering gone⁠—the rank earth purged⁠—nothing but joy left!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ocean fill’d with joy⁠—the atmosphere all joy!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Joy! joy! in freedom, worship, love! joy in the ecstasy of life!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Enough to merely be! enough to breathe!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Joy! joy! all over joy!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-locomotive-in-winter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Locomotive in Winter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thee for my recitative,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee in the driving storm even as now, the snow, the winter-day declining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee in thy panoply, thy measur’d dual throbbing and thy beat convulsive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy black cylindric body, golden brass and silvery steel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy ponderous side-bars, parallel and connecting rods, gyrating, shuttling at thy sides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy metrical, now swelling pant and roar, now tapering in the distance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy great protruding head-light fix’d in front,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy long, pale, floating vapor-pennants, tinged with delicate purple,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dense and murky clouds out-belching from thy smoke-stack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy knitted frame, thy springs and valves, the tremulous twinkle of thy wheels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy train of cars behind, obedient, merrily following,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through gale or calm, now swift, now slack, yet steadily careering;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Type of the modern⁠—emblem of motion and power⁠—pulse of the continent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For once come serve the Muse and merge in verse, even as here I see thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With storm and buffeting gusts of wind and falling snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By day thy warning ringing bell to sound its notes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By night thy silent signal lamps to swing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fierce-throated beauty!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roll through my chant with all thy lawless music, thy swinging lamps at night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy madly-whistled laughter, echoing, rumbling like an earthquake, rousing all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Law of thyself complete, thine own track firmly holding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(No sweetness debonair of tearful harp or glib piano thine,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy trills of shrieks by rocks and hills return’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Launch’d o’er the prairies wide, across the lakes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the free skies unpent and glad and strong.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="o-magnet-south" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">O Magnet-South</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O magnet-South! O glistening perfumed South! my South!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O quick mettle, rich blood, impulse and love! good and evil! O all dear to me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O dear to me my birth-things⁠—all moving things and the trees where I was born⁠—the grains, plants, rivers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear to me my own slow sluggish rivers where they flow, distant, over flats of silvery sands or through swamps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear to me the Roanoke, the Savannah, the Altamahaw, the Pedee, the Tombigbee, the Santee, the Coosa, and the Sabine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O pensive, far away wandering, I return with my soul to haunt their banks again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again in Florida I float on transparent lakes, I float on the Okeechobee, I cross the hummock-land or through pleasant openings or dense forests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the parrots in the woods, I see the papaw-tree and the blossoming titi;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again, sailing in my coaster on deck, I coast off Georgia, I coast up the Carolinas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see where the live-oak is growing, I see where the yellow-pine, the scented bay-tree, the lemon and orange, the cypress, the graceful palmetto,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pass rude sea-headlands and enter Pamlico sound through an inlet, and dart my vision inland;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the cotton plant! the growing fields of rice, sugar, hemp!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cactus guarded with thorns, the laurel-tree with large white flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The range afar, the richness and barrenness, the old woods charged with mistletoe and trailing moss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The piney odor and the gloom, the awful natural stillness, (here in these dense swamps the freebooter carries his gun, and the fugitive has his conceal’d hut;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the strange fascination of these half-known half-impassable swamps, infested by reptiles, resounding with the bellow of the alligator, the sad noises of the night-owl and the wild-cat, and the whirr of the rattlesnake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mocking-bird, the American mimic, singing all the forenoon, singing through the moon-lit night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The humming-bird, the wild turkey, the raccoon, the opossum;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Kentucky corn-field, the tall, graceful, long-leav’d corn, slender, flapping, bright green, with tassels, with beautiful ears each well-sheath’d in its husk;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O my heart! O tender and fierce pangs, I can stand them not, I will depart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O to be a Virginian where I grew up! O to be a Carolinian!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O longings irrepressible! O I will go back to old Tennessee and never wander more.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mannahatta-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mannahatta</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I was asking for something specific and perfect for my city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereupon lo! upsprang the aboriginal name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now I see what there is in a name, a word, liquid, sane, unruly, musical, self-sufficient,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see that the word of my city is that word from of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because I see that word nested in nests of water-bays, superb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rich, hemm’d thick all around with sailships and steamships, an island sixteen miles long, solid-founded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Numberless crowded streets, high growths of iron, slender, strong, light, splendidly uprising toward clear skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tides swift and ample, well-loved by me, toward sundown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flowing sea-currents, the little islands, larger adjoining islands, the heights, the villas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The countless masts, the white shore-steamers, the lighters, the ferry-boats, the black sea-steamers well-model’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The down-town streets, the jobbers’ houses of business, the houses of business of the ship-merchants and money-brokers, the river-streets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immigrants arriving, fifteen or twenty thousand in a week,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The carts hauling goods, the manly race of drivers of horses, the brown-faced sailors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The summer air, the bright sun shining, and the sailing clouds aloft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winter snows, the sleigh-bells, the broken ice in the river, passing along up or down with the flood-tide or ebb-tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mechanics of the city, the masters, well-form’d, beautiful-faced, looking you straight in the eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trottoirs throng’d, vehicles, Broadway, the women, the shops and shows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A million people⁠—manners free and superb⁠—open voices⁠—hospitality⁠—the most courageous and friendly young men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>City of hurried and sparkling waters! city of spires and masts!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>City nested in bays! my city!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="all-is-truth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">All Is Truth</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O me, man of slack faith so long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing aloof, denying portions so long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only aware to-day of compact all-diffused truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discovering to-day there is no lie or form of lie, and can be none, but grows as inevitably upon itself as the truth does upon itself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or as any law of the earth or any natural production of the earth does.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(This is curious and may not be realized immediately, but it must be realized,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel in myself that I represent falsehoods equally with the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that the universe does.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where has fail’d a perfect return indifferent of lies or the truth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it upon the ground, or in water or fire? or in the spirit of man? or in the meat and blood?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Meditating among liars and retreating sternly into myself, I see that there are really no liars or lies after all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that nothing fails its perfect return, and that what are called lies are perfect returns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that each thing exactly represents itself and what has preceded it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that the truth includes all, and is compact just as much as space is compact,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that there is no flaw or vacuum in the amount of the truth⁠—but that all is truth without exception;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And henceforth I will go celebrate any thing I see or am,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sing and laugh and deny nothing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-riddle-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Riddle Song</h3>
				<p>
					<span>That which eludes this verse and any verse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unheard by sharpest ear, unform’d in clearest eye or cunningest mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor lore nor fame, nor happiness nor wealth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet the pulse of every heart and life throughout the world incessantly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which you and I and all pursuing ever ever miss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Open but still a secret, the real of the real, an illusion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Costless, vouchsafed to each, yet never man the owner,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which poets vainly seek to put in rhyme, historians in prose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which sculptor never chisel’d yet, nor painter painted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which vocalist never sung, nor orator nor actor ever utter’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invoking here and now I challenge for my song.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Indifferently, ’mid public, private haunts, in solitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the mountain and the wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Companion of the city’s busiest streets, through the assemblage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It and its radiations constantly glide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In looks of fair unconscious babes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or strangely in the coffin’d dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or show of breaking dawn or stars by night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As some dissolving delicate film of dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hiding yet lingering.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Two little breaths of words comprising it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two words, yet all from first to last comprised in it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How ardently for it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How many ships have sail’d and sunk for it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How many travelers started from their homes and ne’er return’d!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How much of genius boldly staked and lost for it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What countless stores of beauty, love, ventur’d for it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How all superbest deeds since Time began are traceable to it⁠—and shall be to the end!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How all heroic martyrdoms to it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How, justified by it, the horrors, evils, battles of the earth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the bright fascinating lambent flames of it, in every age and land, have drawn men’s eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rich as a sunset on the Norway coast, the sky, the islands, and the cliffs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or midnight’s silent glowing northern lights unreachable.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Haply God’s riddle it, so vague and yet so certain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul for it, and all the visible universe for it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heaven at last for it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="excelsior" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Excelsior</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Who has gone farthest? for I would go farther,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who has been just? for I would be the most just person of the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who most cautious? for I would be more cautious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who has been happiest? O I think it is I⁠—I think no one was ever happier than I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who has lavish’d all? for I lavish constantly the best I have,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who proudest? for I think I have reason to be the proudest son alive⁠—for I am the son of the brawny and tall-topt city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who has been bold and true? for I would be the boldest and truest being of the universe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who benevolent? for I would show more benevolence than all the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who has receiv’d the love of the most friends? for I know what it is to receive the passionate love of many friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who possesses a perfect and enamour’d body? for I do not believe any one possesses a more perfect or enamour’d body than mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who thinks the amplest thoughts? for I would surround those thoughts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who has made hymns fit for the earth? for I am mad with devouring ecstasy to make joyous hymns for the whole earth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ah-poverties-wincings-and-sulky-retreats" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ah Poverties, Wincings, and Sulky Retreats</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah poverties, wincings, and sulky retreats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah you foes that in conflict have overcome me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For what is my life or any man’s life but a conflict with foes, the old, the incessant war?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You degradations, you tussle with passions and appetites,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You smarts from dissatisfied friendships, (ah wounds the sharpest of all!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You toil of painful and choked articulations, you meannesses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shallow tongue-talks at tables, (my tongue the shallowest of any;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You broken resolutions, you racking angers, you smother’d ennuis!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah think not you finally triumph, my real self has yet to come forth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It shall yet march forth o’ermastering, till all lies beneath me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It shall yet stand up the soldier of ultimate victory.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thoughts-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thoughts</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of public opinion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a calm and cool fiat sooner or later, (how impassive! how certain and final!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the President with pale face asking secretly to himself, <q>What will the people say at last?</q></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the frivolous Judge⁠—of the corrupt Congressman, Governor, Mayor⁠—of such as these standing helpless and exposed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the mumbling and screaming priest, (soon, soon deserted,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the lessening year by year of venerableness, and of the dicta of officers, statutes, pulpits, schools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the rising forever taller and stronger and broader of the intuitions of men and women, and of Self-esteem and Personality;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the true New World⁠—of the Democracies resplendent en-masse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the conformity of politics, armies, navies, to them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the shining sun by them⁠—of the inherent light, greater than the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the envelopment of all by them, and the effusion of all from them.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mediums" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mediums</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They shall arise in the States,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall report Nature, laws, physiology, and happiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall illustrate Democracy and the kosmos,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall be alimentive, amative, perceptive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall be complete women and men, their pose brawny and supple, their drink water, their blood clean and clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall fully enjoy materialism and the sight of products, they shall enjoy the sight of the beef, lumber, bread-stuffs, of Chicago the great city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall train themselves to go in public to become orators and oratresses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strong and sweet shall their tongues be, poems and materials of poems shall come from their lives, they shall be makers and finders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of them and of their works shall emerge divine conveyers, to convey gospels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Characters, events, retrospections, shall be convey’d in gospels, trees, animals, waters, shall be convey’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death, the future, the invisible faith, shall all be convey’d.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="weave-in-my-hardy-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Weave In, My Hardy Life</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Weave in, weave in, my hardy life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weave yet a soldier strong and full for great campaigns to come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weave in red blood, weave sinews in like ropes, the senses, sight weave in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weave lasting sure, weave day and night the weft, the warp, incessant weave, tire not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(We know not what the use O life, nor know the aim, the end, nor really aught we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But know the work, the need goes on and shall go on, the death-envelop’d march of peace as well as war goes on,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For great campaigns of peace the same the wiry threads to weave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know not why or what, yet weave, forever weave.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spain-187374" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Spain, 1873⁠–⁠74</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Out of the murk of heaviest clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the feudal wrecks and heap’d-up skeletons of kings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of that old entire European debris, the shatter’d mummeries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ruin’d cathedrals, crumble of palaces, tombs of priests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, Freedom’s features fresh undimm’d look forth⁠—the same immortal face looks forth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A glimpse as of thy Mother’s face Columbia,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A flash significant as of a sword,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beaming towards thee.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor think we forget thee maternal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lag’d’st thou so long? shall the clouds close again upon thee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, but thou hast thyself now appear’d to us⁠—we know thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast given us a sure proof, the glimpse of thyself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou waitest there as everywhere thy time.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="by-broad-potomacs-shore" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">By Broad Potomac’s Shore</h3>
				<p>
					<span>By broad Potomac’s shore, again old tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Still uttering, still ejaculating, canst never cease this babble?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again old heart so gay, again to you, your sense, the full flush spring returning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again the freshness and the odors, again Virginia’s summer sky, pellucid blue and silver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again the forenoon purple of the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again the deathless grass, so noiseless soft and green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again the blood-red roses blooming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perfume this book of mine O blood-red roses!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lave subtly with your waters every line Potomac!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give me of you O spring, before I close, to put between its pages!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O forenoon purple of the hills, before I close, of you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O deathless grass, of you!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-far-dakotas-cañons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">From Far Dakota’s Cañons</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">June 25, 1876</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>From far Dakota’s cañons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lands of the wild ravine, the dusky Sioux, the lonesome stretch, the silence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Haply to-day a mournful wail, haply a trumpet-note for heroes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The battle-bulletin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Indian ambuscade, the craft, the fatal environment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cavalry companies fighting to the last in sternest heroism,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the midst of their little circle, with their slaughter’d horses for breastworks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fall of Custer and all his officers and men.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Continues yet the old, old legend of our race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loftiest of life upheld by death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ancient banner perfectly maintain’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O lesson opportune, O how I welcome thee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As sitting in dark days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lone, sulky, through the time’s thick murk looking in vain for light, for hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From unsuspected parts a fierce and momentary proof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The sun there at the centre though conceal’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Electric life forever at the centre,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breaks forth a lightning flash.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou of the tawny flowing hair in battle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I erewhile saw, with erect head, pressing ever in front, bearing a bright sword in thy hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now ending well in death the splendid fever of thy deeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I bring no dirge for it or thee, I bring a glad triumphal sonnet,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Desperate and glorious, aye in defeat most desperate, most glorious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After thy many battles in which never yielding up a gun or a color,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving behind thee a memory sweet to soldiers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou yieldest up thyself.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="old-war-dreams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Old War-Dreams</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In midnight sleep of many a face of anguish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the look at first of the mortally wounded, (of that indescribable look,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dead on their backs with arms extended wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I dream, I dream, I dream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of scenes of Nature, fields and mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of skies so beauteous after a storm, and at night the moon so unearthly bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shining sweetly, shining down, where we dig the trenches and gather the heaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I dream, I dream, I dream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long have they pass’d, faces and trenches and fields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where through the carnage I moved with a callous composure, or away from the fallen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Onward I sped at the time⁠—but now of their forms at night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I dream, I dream, I dream.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thick-sprinkled-bunting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thick-Sprinkled Bunting</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thick-sprinkled bunting! flag of stars!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long yet your road, fateful flag⁠—long yet your road, and lined with bloody death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the prize I see at issue at last is the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All its ships and shores I see interwoven with your threads greedy banner;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dream’d again the flags of kings, highest borne, to flaunt unrival’d?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O hasten flag of man⁠—O with sure and steady step, passing highest flags of kings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk supreme to the heavens mighty symbol⁠—run up above them all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flag of stars! thick-sprinkled bunting!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="what-best-i-see-in-thee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">What Best I See in Thee</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">To U. S. G. return’d from his World’s Tour</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>What best I see in thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not that where thou mov’st down history’s great highways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ever undimm’d by time shoots warlike victory’s dazzle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or that thou sat’st where Washington sat, ruling the land in peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or thou the man whom feudal Europe fêted, venerable Asia swarm’d upon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who walk’d with kings with even pace the round world’s promenade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that in foreign lands, in all thy walks with kings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those prairie sovereigns of the West, Kansas, Missouri, Illinois,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ohio’s, Indiana’s millions, comrades, farmers, soldiers, all to the front,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invisibly with thee walking with kings with even pace the round world’s promenade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were all so justified.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spirit-that-formd-this-scene" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Spirit That Form’d This Scene</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">Written in Platte Cañon, Colorado</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Spirit that form’d this scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These tumbled rock-piles grim and red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These reckless heaven-ambitious peaks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These gorges, turbulent-clear streams, this naked freshness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These formless wild arrays, for reasons of their own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know thee, savage spirit⁠—we have communed together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mine too such wild arrays, for reasons of their own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was’t charged against my chants they had forgotten art?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fuse within themselves its rules precise and delicatesse?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lyrist’s measur’d beat, the wrought-out temple’s grace⁠—column and polish’d arch forgot?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But thou that revelest here⁠—spirit that form’d this scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They have remember’d thee.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="as-i-walk-these-broad-majestic-days" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">As I Walk These Broad Majestic Days</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As I walk these broad majestic days of peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For the war, the struggle of blood finish’d, wherein, O terrific Ideal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against vast odds erewhile having gloriously won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now thou stridest on, yet perhaps in time toward denser wars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps to engage in time in still more dreadful contests, dangers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Longer campaigns and crises, labors beyond all others,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around me I hear that eclat of the world, politics, produce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The announcements of recognized things, science,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The approved growth of cities and the spread of inventions.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I see the ships, (they will last a few years,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vast factories with their foremen and workmen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear the indorsement of all, and do not object to it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But I too announce solid things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Science, ships, politics, cities, factories, are not nothing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a grand procession to music of distant bugles pouring, triumphantly moving, and grander heaving in sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stand for realities⁠—all is as it should be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then my realities;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What else is so real as mine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Libertad and the divine average, freedom to every slave on the face of the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rapt promises and luminè of seers, the spiritual world, these centuries-lasting songs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our visions, the visions of poets, the most solid announcements of any.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-clear-midnight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Clear Midnight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>This is thy hour O Soul, thy free flight into the wordless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away from books, away from art, the day erased, the lesson done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee fully forth emerging, silent, gazing, pondering the themes thou lovest best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night, sleep, death and the stars.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
