<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Inscriptions</title>
<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="inscriptions" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title">Inscriptions</h2>
<article id="ones-self-i-sing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">One’s-Self I Sing</h3>
	<p>
		<span>One’s-self I sing, a simple separate person,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Yet utter the word Democratic, the word En-Masse.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Of physiology from top to toe I sing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Not physiognomy alone nor brain alone is worthy for the Muse, I say the Form complete is worthier far,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The Female equally with the Male I sing.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Of Life immense in passion, pulse, and power,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Cheerful, for freest action form’d under the laws divine,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The Modern Man I sing.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="as-i-ponderd-in-silence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">As I Ponder’d in Silence</h3>
	<p>
		<span>As I ponder’d in silence,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Returning upon my poems, considering, lingering long,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A Phantom arose before me with distrustful aspect,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Terrible in beauty, age, and power,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The genius of poets of old lands,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As to me directing like flame its eyes,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>With finger pointing to many immortal songs,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And menacing voice, <q>What singest thou?</q> it said,</span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>Know’st thou not there is but one theme for ever-enduring bards?</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>And that is the theme of War, the fortune of battles,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>The making of perfect soldiers.</q></span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span><q>Be it so,</q> then I answer’d,</span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>I too haughty Shade also sing war, and a longer and greater one than any,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>Waged in my book with varying fortune, with flight, advance and retreat, victory deferr’d and wavering,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>(Yet methinks certain, or as good as certain, at the last,) the field the world,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>For life and death, for the Body and for the eternal Soul,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>Lo, I too am come, chanting the chant of battles,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>I above all promote brave soldiers.</q></span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="in-cabind-ships-at-sea" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">In Cabin’d Ships at Sea</h3>
	<p>
		<span>In cabin’d ships at sea,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The boundless blue on every side expanding,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>With whistling winds and music of the waves, the large imperious waves,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Or some lone bark buoy’d on the dense marine,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Where joyous full of faith, spreading white sails,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>She cleaves the ether mid the sparkle and the foam of day, or under many a star at night,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>By sailors young and old haply will I, a reminiscence of the land, be read,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>In full rapport at last.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span><q>Here are our thoughts, voyagers’ thoughts,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>Here not the land, firm land, alone appears,</q> may then by them be said,</span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>The sky o’erarches here, we feel the undulating deck beneath our feet,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>We feel the long pulsation, ebb and flow of endless motion,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>The tones of unseen mystery, the vague and vast suggestions of the briny world, the liquid-flowing syllables,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>The perfume, the faint creaking of the cordage, the melancholy rhythm,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>The boundless vista and the horizon far and dim are all here,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span><q>And this is ocean’s poem.</q></span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Then falter not O book, fulfil your destiny,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>You not a reminiscence of the land alone,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>You too as a lone bark cleaving the ether, purpos’d I know not whither, yet ever full of faith,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Consort to every ship that sails, sail you!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Bear forth to them folded my love, (dear mariners, for you I fold it here in every leaf;)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Speed on my book! spread your white sails my little bark athwart the imperious waves,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Chant on, sail on, bear o’er the boundless blue from me to every sea,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>This song for mariners and all their ships.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-foreign-lands" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To Foreign Lands</h3>
	<p>
		<span>I heard that you ask’d for something to prove this puzzle the New World,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And to define America, her athletic Democracy,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Therefore I send you my poems that you behold in them what you wanted.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-a-historian" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To a Historian</h3>
	<p>
		<span>You who celebrate bygones,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Who have explored the outward, the surfaces of the races, the life that has exhibited itself,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Who have treated of man as the creature of politics, aggregates, rulers and priests,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I, habitan of the Alleghanies, treating of him as he is in himself in his own rights,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Pressing the pulse of the life that has seldom exhibited itself, (the great pride of man in himself,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Chanter of Personality, outlining what is yet to be,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I project the history of the future.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-thee-old-cause" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To Thee Old Cause</h3>
	<p>
		<span>To thee old cause!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Thou peerless, passionate, good cause,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Thou stern, remorseless, sweet idea,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Deathless throughout the ages, races, lands,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>After a strange sad war, great war for thee,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(I think all war through time was really fought, and ever will be really fought, for thee,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>These chants for thee, the eternal march of thee.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>(A war O soldiers not for itself alone,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Far, far more stood silently waiting behind, now to advance in this book.)</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>Thou orb of many orbs!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Thou seething principle! thou well-kept, latent germ! thou centre!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Around the idea of thee the war revolving,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>With all its angry and vehement play of causes,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(With vast results to come for thrice a thousand years,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>These recitatives for thee,—my book and the war are one,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Merged in its spirit I and mine, as the contest hinged on thee,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As a wheel on its axis turns, this book unwitting to itself,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Around the idea of thee.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="eidólons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Eidólons</h3>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">I met a seer,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Passing the hues and objects of the world,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The fields of art and learning, pleasure, sense,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">To glean eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Put in thy chants said he,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>No more the puzzling hour nor day, nor segments, parts, put in,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Put first before the rest as light for all and entrance-song of all,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">That of eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Ever the dim beginning,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Ever the growth, the rounding of the circle,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Ever the summit and the merge at last, (to surely start again,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Eidólons! eidólons!</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Ever the mutable,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Ever materials, changing, crumbling, re-cohering,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Ever the ateliers, the factories divine,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Issuing eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Lo, I or you,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Or woman, man, or state, known or unknown,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>We seeming solid wealth, strength, beauty build,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">But really build eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">The ostent evanescent,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The substance of an artist’s mood or savan’s studies long,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Or warrior’s, martyr’s, hero’s toils,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">To fashion his eidólon.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Of every human life,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(The units gather’d, posted, not a thought, emotion, deed, left out,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The whole or large or small summ’d, added up,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">In its eidólon.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">The old, old urge,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Based on the ancient pinnacles, lo, newer, higher pinnacles,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>From science and the modern still impell’d,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">The old, old urge, eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">The present now and here,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>America’s busy, teeming, intricate whirl,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of aggregate and segregate for only thence releasing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">To-day’s eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">These with the past,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of vanish’d lands, of all the reigns of kings across the sea,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Old conquerors, old campaigns, old sailors’ voyages,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Joining eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Densities, growth, façades,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Strata of mountains, soils, rocks, giant trees,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Far-born, far-dying, living long, to leave,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Eidólons everlasting.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Exaltè, rapt, ecstatic,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The visible but their womb of birth,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Of orbic tendencies to shape and shape and shape,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">The mighty earth-eidólon.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">All space, all time,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(The stars, the terrible perturbations of the suns,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Swelling, collapsing, ending, serving their longer, shorter use,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Fill’d with eidólons only.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">The noiseless myriads,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The infinite oceans where the rivers empty,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The separate countless free identities, like eyesight,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">The true realities, eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Not this the world,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Nor these the universes, they the universes,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Purport and end, ever the permanent life of life,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Eidólons, eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Beyond thy lectures learn’d professor,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Beyond thy telescope or spectroscope observer keen, beyond all mathematics,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Beyond the doctor’s surgery, anatomy, beyond the chemist with his chemistry,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">The entities of entities, eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Unfix’d yet fix’d,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Ever shall be, ever have been and are,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Sweeping the present to the infinite future,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Eidólons, eidólons, eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">The prophet and the bard,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Shall yet maintain themselves, in higher stages yet,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Shall mediate to the Modern, to Democracy, interpret yet to them,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">God and eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">And thee my soul,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Joys, ceaseless exercises, exaltations,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Thy yearning amply fed at last, prepared to meet,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">Thy mates, eidólons.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Thy body permanent,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The body lurking there within thy body,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The only purport of the form thou art, the real I myself,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">An image, an eidólon.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span class="i1">Thy very songs not in thy songs,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>No special strains to sing, none for itself,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>But from the whole resulting, rising at last and floating,</span>
		<br/>
		<span class="i1">A round full-orb’d eidólon.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="for-him-i-sing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">For Him I Sing</h3>
	<p>
		<span>For him I sing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I raise the present on the past,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(As some perennial tree out of its roots, the present on the past,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>With time and space I him dilate and fuse the immortal laws,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>To make himself by them the law unto himself.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="when-i-read-the-book" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">When I Read the Book</h3>
	<p>
		<span>When I read the book, the biography famous,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And is this then (said I) what the author calls a man’s life?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And so will some one when I am dead and gone write my life?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(As if any man really knew aught of my life,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Why even I myself I often think know little or nothing of my real life,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Only a few hints, a few diffused faint clews and indirections</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I seek for my own use to trace out here.)</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="beginning-my-studies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Beginning My Studies</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Beginning my studies the first step pleas’d me so much,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The mere fact consciousness, these forms, the power of motion,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The least insect or animal, the senses, eyesight, love,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The first step I say awed me and pleas’d me so much,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I have hardly gone and hardly wish’d to go any farther,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>But stop and loiter all the time to sing it in ecstatic songs.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="beginners" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Beginners</h3>
	<p>
		<span>How they are provided for upon the earth, (appearing at intervals,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>How dear and dreadful they are to the earth,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>How they inure to themselves as much as to any—what a paradox appears their age,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>How people respond to them, yet know them not,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>How there is something relentless in their fate all times,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>How all times mischoose the objects of their adulation and reward,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And how the same inexorable price must still be paid for the same great purchase.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-the-states-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To the States</h3>
	<p>
		<span>To the States or any one of them, or any city of the States, <q>Resist much, obey little,</q></span>
		<br/>
		<span>Once unquestioning obedience, once fully enslaved,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Once fully enslaved, no nation, state, city of this earth, ever afterward resumes its liberty.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="on-journeys-through-the-states" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">On Journeys Through the States</h3>
	<p>
		<span>On journeys through the States we start,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(Ay through the world, urged by these songs,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Sailing henceforth to every land, to every sea,)</span>
		<br/>
		<span>We willing learners of all, teachers of all, and lovers of all.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>We have watch’d the seasons dispensing themselves and passing on,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And have said, Why should not a man or woman do as much as the seasons, and effuse as much?</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>We dwell a while in every city and town,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>We pass through Kanada, the North-east, the vast valley of the Mississippi, and the Southern States,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>We confer on equal terms with each of the States,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>We make trial of ourselves and invite men and women to hear,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>We say to ourselves, Remember, fear not, be candid, promulge the body and the soul,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Dwell a while and pass on, be copious, temperate, chaste, magnetic,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And what you effuse may then return as the seasons return,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And may be just as much as the seasons.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-a-certain-cantatrice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To a Certain Cantatrice</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Here, take this gift,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I was reserving it for some hero, speaker, or general,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>One who should serve the good old cause, the great idea, the progress and freedom of the race,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Some brave confronter of despots, some daring rebel;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>But I see that what I was reserving belongs to you just as much as to any.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="me-imperturbe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Me Imperturbe</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Me imperturbe, standing at ease in Nature,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Master of all or mistress of all, aplomb in the midst of irrational things,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Imbued as they, passive, receptive, silent as they,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Finding my occupation, poverty, notoriety, foibles, crimes, less important than I thought,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Me toward the Mexican sea, or in the Mannahatta or the Tennessee, or far north or inland,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A river man, or a man of the woods or of any farm-life of these States or of the coast, or the lakes or Kanada,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Me wherever my life is lived, O to be self-balanced for contingencies,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>To confront night, storms, hunger, ridicule, accidents, rebuffs, as the trees and animals do.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="savantism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Savantism</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Thither as I look I see each result and glory retracing itself and nestling close, always obligated,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Thither hours, months, years—thither trades, compacts, establishments, even the most minute,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Thither every-day life, speech, utensils, politics, persons, estates;</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Thither we also, I with my leaves and songs, trustful, admirant,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>As a father to his father going takes his children along with him.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="the-ship-starting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">The Ship Starting</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Lo, the unbounded sea,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>On its breast a ship starting, spreading all sails, carrying even her moonsails,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The pennant is flying aloft as she speeds she speeds so stately—below emulous waves press forward,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>They surround the ship with shining curving motions and foam.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="i-hear-america-singing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">I Hear America Singing</h3>
	<p>
		<span>I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Those of mechanics, each one singing his as it should be blithe and strong,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The carpenter singing his as he measures his plank or beam,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The mason singing his as he makes ready for work, or leaves off work,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The boatman singing what belongs to him in his boat, the deck-hand singing on the steamboat deck,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The shoemaker singing as he sits on his bench, the hatter singing as he stands,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The wood-cutter’s song, the ploughboy’s on his way in the morning, or at noon intermission or at sundown,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The delicious singing of the mother, or of the young wife at work, or of the girl sewing or washing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Each singing what belongs to him or her and to none else,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The day what belongs to the day—at night the party of young fellows, robust, friendly,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Singing with open mouths their strong melodious songs.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="what-place-is-besieged" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">What Place Is Besieged?</h3>
	<p>
		<span>What place is besieged, and vainly tries to raise the siege?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Lo, I send to that place a commander, swift, brave, immortal,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And with him horse and foot, and parks of artillery,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And artillery-men, the deadliest that ever fired gun.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="still-though-the-one-i-sing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Still Though the One I Sing</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Still though the one I sing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>(One, yet of contradictions made,) I dedicate to Nationality,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I leave in him revolt, (O latent right of insurrection! O quenchless, indispensable fire!)</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="shut-not-your-doors" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Shut Not Your Doors</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Shut not your doors to me proud libraries,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>For that which was lacking on all your well-fill’d shelves, yet needed most, I bring,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Forth from the war emerging, a book I have made,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>The words of my book nothing, the drift of it every thing,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>A book separate, not link’d with the rest nor felt by the intellect,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>But you ye untold latencies will thrill to every page.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="poets-to-come" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Poets to Come</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Poets to come! orators, singers, musicians to come!</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Not to-day is to justify me and answer what I am for,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>But you, a new brood, native, athletic, continental, greater than before known,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Arouse! for you must justify me.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>I myself but write one or two indicative words for the future,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>I but advance a moment only to wheel and hurry back in the darkness.</span>
	</p>
	<p>
		<span>I am a man who, sauntering along without fully stopping, turns a casual look upon you and then averts his face,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Leaving it to you to prove and define it,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Expecting the main things from you.</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="to-you-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">To You</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Stranger, if you passing meet me and desire to speak to me, why should you not speak to me?</span>
		<br/>
		<span>And why should I not speak to you?</span>
	</p>
</article>
<article id="thou-reader" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<h3 epub:type="title">Thou Reader</h3>
	<p>
		<span>Thou reader throbbest life and pride and love the same as I,</span>
		<br/>
		<span>Therefore for thee the following chants.</span>
	</p>
</article>
</section>
</body>
</html>
