<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Memories of President Lincoln</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="memories-of-president-lincoln" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Memories of President Lincoln</h2>
			<article id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d</h3>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>When lilacs last in the dooryard bloom’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the great star early droop’d in the western sky in the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I mourn’d, and yet shall mourn with ever-returning spring.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ever-returning spring, trinity sure to me you bring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lilac blooming perennial and drooping star in the west,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thought of him I love.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>O powerful western fallen star!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O shades of night—O moody, tearful night!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O great star disappear’d—O the black murk that hides the star!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O cruel hands that hold me powerless—O helpless soul of me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O harsh surrounding cloud that will not free my soul.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>In the dooryard fronting an old farm-house near the white-wash’d palings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stands the lilac-bush tall-growing with heart-shaped leaves of rich green,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With many a pointed blossom rising delicate, with the perfume strong I love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With every leaf a miracle—and from this bush in the dooryard,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With delicate-color’d blossoms and heart-shaped leaves of rich green,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A sprig with its flower I break.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-4" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">4</h4>
					<p>
						<span>In the swamp in secluded recesses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A shy and hidden bird is warbling a song.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Solitary the thrush,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hermit withdrawn to himself, avoiding the settlements,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sings by himself a song.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Song of the bleeding throat,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Death’s outlet song of life, (for well dear brother I know,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If thou wast not granted to sing thou would’st surely die.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-5" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">5</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Over the breast of the spring, the land, amid cities,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amid lanes and through old woods, where lately the violets peep’d from the ground, spotting the gray debris,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amid the grass in the fields each side of the lanes, passing the endless grass,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passing the yellow-spear’d wheat, every grain from its shroud in the dark-brown fields uprisen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passing the apple-tree blows of white and pink in the orchards,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Carrying a corpse to where it shall rest in the grave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Night and day journeys a coffin.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-6" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">6</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Coffin that passes through lanes and streets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Through day and night with the great cloud darkening the land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the pomp of the inloop’d flags with the cities draped in black,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the show of the States themselves as of crape-veil’d women standing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With processions long and winding and the flambeaus of the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the countless torches lit, with the silent sea of faces and the unbared heads,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the waiting depot, the arriving coffin, and the sombre faces,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With dirges through the night, with the thousand voices rising strong and solemn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all the mournful voices of the dirges pour’d around the coffin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dim-lit churches and the shuddering organs—where amid these you journey,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the tolling tolling bells’ perpetual clang,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here, coffin that slowly passes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I give you my sprig of lilac.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-7" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">7</h4>
					<p>
						<span>(Nor for you, for one alone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blossoms and branches green to coffins all I bring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For fresh as the morning, thus would I chant a song for you O sane and sacred death.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>All over bouquets of roses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O death, I cover you over with roses and early lilies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But mostly and now the lilac that blooms the first,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Copious I break, I break the sprigs from the bushes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With loaded arms I come, pouring for you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For you and the coffins all of you O death.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-8" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">8</h4>
					<p>
						<span>O western orb sailing the heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now I know what you must have meant as a month since I walk’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I walk’d in silence the transparent shadowy night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I saw you had something to tell as you bent to me night after night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As you droop’d from the sky low down as if to my side, (while the other stars all look’d on,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As we wander’d together the solemn night, (for something I know not what kept me from sleep,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As the night advanced, and I saw on the rim of the west how full you were of woe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I stood on the rising ground in the breeze in the cool transparent night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I watch’d where you pass’d and was lost in the netherward black of the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As my soul in its trouble dissatisfied sank, as where you sad orb,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Concluded, dropt in the night, and was gone.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-9" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">9</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Sing on there in the swamp,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O singer bashful and tender, I hear your notes, I hear your call,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear, I come presently, I understand you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But a moment I linger, for the lustrous star has detain’d me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The star my departing comrade holds and detains me.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-10" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">10</h4>
					<p>
						<span>O how shall I warble myself for the dead one there I loved?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how shall I deck my song for the large sweet soul that has gone?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And what shall my perfume be for the grave of him I love?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Sea-winds blown from east and west,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blown from the Eastern sea and blown from the Western sea, till there on the prairies meeting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These and with these and the breath of my chant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll perfume the grave of him I love.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-11" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">11</h4>
					<p>
						<span>O what shall I hang on the chamber walls?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And what shall the pictures be that I hang on the walls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To adorn the burial-house of him I love?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Pictures of growing spring and farms and homes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the Fourth-month eve at sundown, and the gray smoke lucid and bright,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With floods of the yellow gold of the gorgeous, indolent, sinking sun, burning, expanding the air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the fresh sweet herbage under foot, and the pale green leaves of the trees prolific,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the distance the flowing glaze, the breast of the river, with a wind-dapple here and there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With ranging hills on the banks, with many a line against the sky, and shadows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the city at hand with dwellings so dense, and stacks of chimneys,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all the scenes of life and the workshops, and the workmen homeward returning.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-12" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">12</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Lo, body and soul—this land,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My own Manhattan with spires, and the sparkling and hurrying tides, and the ships,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The varied and ample land, the South and the North in the light, Ohio’s shores and flashing Missouri,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And ever the far-spreading prairies cover’d with grass and corn.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Lo, the most excellent sun so calm and haughty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The violet and purple morn with just-felt breezes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gentle soft-born measureless light,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The miracle spreading bathing all, the fulfill’d noon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The coming eve delicious, the welcome night and the stars,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over my cities shining all, enveloping man and land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-13" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">13</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Sing on, sing on you gray-brown bird,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sing from the swamps, the recesses, pour your chant from the bushes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Limitless out of the dusk, out of the cedars and pines.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Sing on dearest brother, warble your reedy song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Loud human song, with voice of uttermost woe.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O liquid and free and tender!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O wild and loose to my soul—O wondrous singer!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You only I hear—yet the star holds me, (but will soon depart,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet the lilac with mastering odor holds me.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-14" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">14</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Now while I sat in the day and look’d forth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the close of the day with its light and the fields of spring, and the farmers preparing their crops,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the large unconscious scenery of my land with its lakes and forests,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the heavenly aerial beauty, (after the perturb’d winds and the storms,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under the arching heavens of the afternoon swift passing, and the voices of children and women,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The many-moving sea-tides, and I saw the ships how they sail’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the summer approaching with richness, and the fields all busy with labor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the infinite separate houses, how they all went on, each with its meals and minutia of daily usages,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the streets how their throbbings throbb’d, and the cities pent—lo, then and there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Falling upon them all and among them all, enveloping me with the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Appear’d the cloud, appear’d the long black trail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I knew death, its thought, and the sacred knowledge of death.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Then with the knowledge of death as walking one side of me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the thought of death close-walking the other side of me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I in the middle as with companions, and as holding the hands of companions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I fled forth to the hiding receiving night that talks not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down to the shores of the water, the path by the swamp in the dimness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the solemn shadowy cedars and ghostly pines so still.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And the singer so shy to the rest receiv’d me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gray-brown bird I know receiv’d us comrades three,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he sang the carol of death, and a verse for him I love.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From deep secluded recesses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the fragrant cedars and the ghostly pines so still,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Came the carol of the bird.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And the charm of the carol rapt me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I held as if by their hands my comrades in the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the voice of my spirit tallied the song of the bird.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>
							<q>Come lovely and soothing death,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Undulate round the world, serenely arriving, arriving,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>In the day, in the night, to all, to each,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Sooner or later delicate death.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>
							<q>Prais’d be the fathomless universe,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>For life and joy, and for objects and knowledge curious,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>And for love, sweet love—but praise! praise! praise!</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>For the sure-enwinding arms of cool-enfolding death.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>
							<q>Dark mother always gliding near with soft feet,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Have none chanted for thee a chant of fullest welcome?</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Then I chant it for thee, I glorify thee above all,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>I bring thee a song that when thou must indeed come, come unfalteringly.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>
							<q>Approach strong deliveress,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>When it is so, when thou hast taken them I joyously sing the dead,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Lost in the loving floating ocean of thee,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Laved in the flood of thy bliss O death.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>
							<q>From me to thee glad serenades,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Dances for thee I propose saluting thee, adornments and feastings for thee,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>And the sights of the open landscape and the high-spread sky are fitting,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>And life and the fields, and the huge and thoughtful night.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>
							<q>The night in silence under many a star,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>The ocean shore and the husky whispering wave whose voice I know,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>And the soul turning to thee O vast and well-veil’d death,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>And the body gratefully nestling close to thee.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>
							<q>Over the tree-tops I float thee a song,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Over the rising and sinking waves, over the myriad fields and the prairies wide,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>Over the dense-pack’d cities all and the teeming wharves and ways,</q>
						</span>
						<br/>
						<span>
							<q>I float this carol with joy, with joy to thee O death.</q>
						</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-15" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">15</h4>
					<p>
						<span>To the tally of my soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Loud and strong kept up the gray-brown bird,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With pure deliberate notes spreading filling the night.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Loud in the pines and cedars dim,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Clear in the freshness moist and the swamp-perfume,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I with my comrades there in the night.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>While my sight that was bound in my eyes unclosed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As to long panoramas of visions.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And I saw askant the armies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw as in noiseless dreams hundreds of battle-flags,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Borne through the smoke of the battles and pierc’d with missiles I saw them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And carried hither and yon through the smoke, and torn and bloody,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And at last but a few shreds left on the staffs, (and all in silence,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the staffs all splinter’d and broken.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I saw battle-corpses, myriads of them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the white skeletons of young men, I saw them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw the debris and debris of all the slain soldiers of the war,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But I saw they were not as was thought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They themselves were fully at rest, they suffer’d not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The living remain’d and suffer’d, the mother suffer’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the wife and the child and the musing comrade suffer’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the armies that remain’d suffer’d.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="when-lilacs-last-in-the-dooryard-bloomd-16" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">16</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Passing the visions, passing the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passing, unloosing the hold of my comrades’ hands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passing the song of the hermit bird and the tallying song of my soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Victorious song, death’s outlet song, yet varying ever-altering song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As low and wailing, yet clear the notes, rising and falling, flooding the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sadly sinking and fainting, as warning and warning, and yet again bursting with joy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Covering the earth and filling the spread of the heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As that powerful psalm in the night I heard from recesses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passing, I leave thee lilac with heart-shaped leaves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I leave thee there in the dooryard, blooming, returning with spring.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I cease from my song for thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From my gaze on thee in the west, fronting the west, communing with thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O comrade lustrous with silver face in the night.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Yet each to keep and all, retrievements out of the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The song, the wondrous chant of the gray-brown bird,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the tallying chant, the echo arous’d in my soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the lustrous and drooping star with the countenance full of woe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the holders holding my hand nearing the call of the bird,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Comrades mine and I in the midst, and their memory ever to keep, for the dead I loved so well,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For the sweetest, wisest soul of all my days and lands—and this for his dear sake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lilac and star and bird twined with the chant of my soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There in the fragrant pines and the cedars dusk and dim.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="o-captain-my-captain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">O Captain! My Captain!</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ship has weather’d every rack, the prize we sought is won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But O heart! heart! heart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O the bleeding drops of red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Where on the deck my Captain lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Fallen cold and dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Captain! my Captain! rise up and hear the bells;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rise up—for you the flag is flung—for you the bugle trills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you bouquets and ribbon’d wreaths—for you the shores a-crowding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here Captain! dear father!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">This arm beneath your head!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">It is some dream that on the deck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">You’ve fallen cold and dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ship is anchor’d safe and sound, its voyage closed and done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exult O shores, and ring O bells!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But I with mournful tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Walk the deck my Captain lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Fallen cold and dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hushd-be-the-camps-to-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Hush’d Be the Camps To-day</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(May 4, 1865)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Hush’d be the camps to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soldiers let us drape our war-worn weapons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each with musing soul retire to celebrate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our dear commander’s death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more for him life’s stormy conflicts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor victory, nor defeat—no more time’s dark events,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Charging like ceaseless clouds across the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But sing poet in our name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing of the love we bore him—because you, dweller in camps, know it truly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As they invault the coffin there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing—as they close the doors of earth upon him—one verse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the heavy hearts of soldiers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="this-dust-was-once-the-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">This Dust Was Once the Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>This dust was once the man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gentle, plain, just and resolute, under whose cautious hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the foulest crime in history known in any land or age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was saved the Union of these States.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
