<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Old Age Echoes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="old-age-echoes" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Old Age Echoes</h2>
			<article id="to-soar-in-freedom-and-in-fullness-of-power" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Soar in Freedom and in Fullness of Power</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I have not so much emulated the birds that musically sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have abandon’d myself to flights, broad circles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hawk, the seagull, have far more possess’d me than the canary or mocking-bird.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have not felt to warble and trill, however sweetly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have felt to soar in freedom and in the fullness of power, joy, volition.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="then-shall-perceive" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Then Shall Perceive</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In softness, languor, bloom, and growth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine eyes, ears, all thy sense—thy loftiest attribute—all that takes cognizance of beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall rouse and fill—then shall perceive!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-few-drops-known" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Few Drops Known</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of heroes, history, grand events, premises, myths, poems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The few drops known must stand for oceans of the unknown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this beautiful and thick peopl’d earth, here and there a little specimen put on record,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little of Greeks and Romans, a few Hebrew canticles, a few death odors as from graves, from Egypt—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What are they to the long and copious retrospect of antiquity?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-thought-ever-at-the-fore" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One Thought Ever at the Fore</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One thought ever at the fore—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in the Divine Ship, the World, breasting Time and Space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Peoples of the globe together sail, sail the same voyage, are bound to the same destination.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="while-behind-all-firm-and-erect" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">While Behind All Firm and Erect</h3>
				<p>
					<span>While behind all, firm and erect as ever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Undismay’d amid the rapids—amid the irresistible and deadly urge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stands a helmsman, with brow elate and strong hand.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-kiss-to-the-bride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Kiss to the Bride</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">Marriage of Nelly Grant, May 21, 1874</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Sacred, blithesome, undenied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With benisons from East and West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And salutations North and South,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through me indeed to-day a million hearts and hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wafting a million loves, a million soulfelt prayers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—Tender and true remain the arm that shields thee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair winds always fill the ship’s sails that sail thee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clear sun by day, and light stars at night, beam on thee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear girl—through me the ancient privilege too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the New World, through me, the old, old wedding greeting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O youth and health! O sweet Missouri rose! O bonny bride!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yield thy red cheeks, thy lips, to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto a Nation’s loving kiss.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nay-tell-me-not-to-day-the-publishd-shame" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Nay, Tell Me Not To-day the Publish’d Shame</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">Winter of 1873, Congress in Session</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, tell me not to-day the publish’d shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Read not to-day the journal’s crowded page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The merciless reports still branding forehead after forehead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The guilty column following guilty column.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To-day to me the tale refusing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turning from it—from the white capitol turning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far from these swelling domes, topt with statues,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More endless, jubilant, vital visions rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unpublish’d, unreported.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through all your quiet ways, or North or South, you Equal States, you honest farms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your million untold manly healthy lives, or East or West, city or country,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your noiseless mothers, sisters, wives, unconscious of their good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mass of homes nor poor nor rich, in visions rise—(even your excellent poverties,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your self-distilling, never-ceasing virtues, self-denials, graces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your endless base of deep integrities within, timid but certain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your blessings steadily bestow’d, sure as the light, and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Plunging to these as a determin’d diver down the deep hidden waters,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These, these to-day I brood upon—all else refusing, these will I con,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-day to these give audience.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="supplement-hours" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Supplement Hours</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sane, random, negligent hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sane, easy, culminating hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the flush, the Indian summer, of my life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away from Books—away from Art—the lesson learn’d, pass’d o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soothing, bathing, merging all—the sane, magnetic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now for the day and night themselves—the open air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now for the fields, the seasons, insects, trees—the rain and snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where wild bees flitting hum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or August mulleins grow, or winter’s snowflakes fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or stars in the skies roll round—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silent sun and stars.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="of-many-a-smutchd-deed-reminiscent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Of Many a Smutch’d Deed Reminiscent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Full of wickedness, I—of many a smutch’d deed reminiscent—of worse deeds capable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I look composedly upon nature, drink day and night the joys of life, and await death with perfect equanimity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because of my tender and boundless love for him I love and because of his boundless love for me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-be-at-all" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">To Be at All</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Cf. Stanza 27, “Song of Myself,” p. 68)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>To be at all—what is better than that?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think if there were nothing more developed, the clam in its callous shell in the sand were august enough.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am not in any callous shell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am cased with supple conductors, all over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They take every object by the hand, and lead it within me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are thousands, each one with his entry to himself;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are always watching with their little eyes, from my head to my feet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One no more than a point lets in and out of me such bliss and magnitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think I could lift the girder of the house away if it lay between me and whatever I wanted.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="deaths-valley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Death’s Valley</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">To accompany a picture; by request. “The Valley of the Shadow of Death,” from the painting by George Inness.</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, do not dream, designer dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast portray’d or hit thy theme entire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, hoverer of late by this dark valley, by its confines, having glimpses of it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here enter lists with thee, claiming my right to make a symbol too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I have seen many wounded soldiers die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After dread suffering—have seen their lives pass off with smiles;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I have watch’d the death-hours of the old; and seen the infant die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rich, with all his nurses and his doctors;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then the poor, in meagreness and poverty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I myself for long, O Death, have breath’d my every breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid the nearness and the silent thought of thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And out of these and thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I make a scene, a song (not fear of thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor gloom’s ravines, nor bleak, nor dark—for I do not fear thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor celebrate the struggle, or contortion, or hard-tied knot),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the broad blessed light and perfect air, with meadows, rippling tides, and trees and flowers and grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the low hum of living breeze—and in the midst God’s beautiful eternal right hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee, holiest minister of Heaven—thee, envoy, usherer, guide at last of all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rich, florid, loosener of the stricture-knot call’d life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet, peaceful, welcome Death.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-same-picture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">On the Same Picture</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">Intended for first stanza of “Death’s Valley”</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Aye, well I know ’tis ghastly to descend that valley:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preachers, musicians, poets, painters, always render it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Philosophs exploit—the battlefield, the ship at sea, the myriad beds, all lands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All, all the past have enter’d, the ancientest humanity we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Syria’s, India’s, Egypt’s, Greece’s, Rome’s;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till now for us under our very eyes spreading the same to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim, ready, the same to-day, for entrance, yours and mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here, here ’tis limn’d.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-thought-of-columbus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Thought of Columbus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The mystery of mysteries, the crude and hurried ceaseless flame, spontaneous, bearing on itself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bubble and the huge, round, concrete orb!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A breath of Deity, as thence the bulging universe unfolding!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The many issuing cycles from their precedent minute!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eras of the soul incepting in an hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Haply the widest, farthest evolutions of the world and man.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thousands and thousands of miles hence, and now four centuries back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mortal impulse thrilling its brain cell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reck’d or unreck’d, the birth can no longer be postpon’d:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A phantom of the moment, mystic, stalking, sudden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a silent thought, yet toppling down of more than walls of brass or stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A flutter at the darkness’ edge as if old Time’s and Space’s secret near revealing.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thought! a definite thought works out in shape.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Four hundred years roll on.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rapid cumulus—trade, navigation, war, peace, democracy, roll on;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The restless armies and the fleets of time following their leader—the old camps of ages pitch’d in newer, larger areas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tangl’d, long-deferr’d éclaircissement of human life and hopes boldly begins untying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As here to-day up-grows the Western World.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(An added word yet to my song, far Discoverer, as ne’er before sent back to son of earth—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If still thou hearest, hear me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Voicing as now—lands, races, arts, bravas to thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er the long backward path to thee—one vast consensus, north, south, east, west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soul plaudits! acclamation! reverent echoes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One manifold, huge memory to thee! oceans and lands!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The modern world to thee and thought of thee!)</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
