<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Passage to India</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="passage-to-india" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Passage to India</h2>
			<article id="passage-to-india" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<section id="passage-to-india-1" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Singing my days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Singing the great achievements of the present,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Singing the strong light works of engineers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Our modern wonders, (the antique ponderous Seven outvied,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the Old World the east the Suez canal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The New by its mighty railroad spann’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The seas inlaid with eloquent gentle wires;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet first to sound, and ever sound, the cry with thee O soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Past! the Past! the Past!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The Past⁠—the dark unfathom’d retrospect!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The teeming gulf⁠—the sleepers and the shadows!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The past⁠—the infinite greatness of the past!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For what is the present after all but a growth out of the past?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(As a projectile form’d, impell’d, passing a certain line, still keeps on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So the present, utterly form’d, impell’d by the past.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-2" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Passage O soul to India!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eclaircise the myths Asiatic, the primitive fables.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Not you alone proud truths of the world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor you alone ye facts of modern science,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But myths and fables of eld, Asia’s, Africa’s fables,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The far-darting beams of the spirit, the unloos’d dreams,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The deep diving bibles and legends,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The daring plots of the poets, the elder religions;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O you temples fairer than lilies pour’d over by the rising sun!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O you fables spurning the known, eluding the hold of the known, mounting to heaven!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You lofty and dazzling towers, pinnacled, red as roses, burnish’d with gold!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Towers of fables immortal fashion’d from mortal dreams!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You too I welcome and fully the same as the rest!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You too with joy I sing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Passage to India!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, soul, seest thou not God’s purpose from the first?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The earth to be spann’d, connected by network,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The races, neighbors, to marry and be given in marriage,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The oceans to be cross’d, the distant brought near,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lands to be welded together.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A worship new I sing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You captains, voyagers, explorers, yours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You engineers, you architects, machinists, yours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You, not for trade or transportation only,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in God’s name, and for thy sake O soul.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-3" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Passage to India!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo soul for thee of tableaus twain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see in one the Suez canal initiated, open’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the procession of steamships, the Empress Eugenie’s leading the van,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I mark from on deck the strange landscape, the pure sky, the level sand in the distance,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I pass swiftly the picturesque groups, the workmen gather’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gigantic dredging machines.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In one again, different, (yet thine, all thine, O soul, the same,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see over my own continent the Pacific railroad surmounting every barrier,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see continual trains of cars winding along the Platte carrying freight and passengers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the locomotives rushing and roaring, and the shrill steam-whistle,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the echoes reverberate through the grandest scenery in the world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I cross the Laramie plains, I note the rocks in grotesque shapes, the buttes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the plentiful larkspur and wild onions, the barren, colorless, sage-deserts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see in glimpses afar or towering immediately above me the great mountains, I see the Wind river and the Wahsatch mountains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the Monument mountain and the Eagle’s Nest, I pass the Promontory, I ascend the Nevadas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I scan the noble Elk mountain and wind around its base,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the Humboldt range, I thread the valley and cross the river,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the clear waters of lake Tahoe, I see forests of majestic pines,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or crossing the great desert, the alkaline plains, I behold enchanting mirages of waters and meadows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Marking through these and after all, in duplicate slender lines,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bridging the three or four thousand miles of land travel,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tying the Eastern to the Western sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The road between Europe and Asia.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(Ah Genoese thy dream! thy dream!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Centuries after thou art laid in thy grave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The shore thou foundest verifies thy dream.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-4" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Passage to India!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Struggles of many a captain, tales of many a sailor dead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over my mood stealing and spreading they come,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like clouds and cloudlets in the unreach’d sky.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Along all history, down the slopes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As a rivulet running, sinking now, and now again to the surface rising,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A ceaseless thought, a varied train⁠—lo, soul, to thee, thy sight, they rise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The plans, the voyages again, the expeditions;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Again Vasco de Gama sails forth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Again the knowledge gain’d, the mariner’s compass,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lands found and nations born, thou born America,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For purpose vast, man’s long probation fill’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou rondure of the world at last accomplish’d.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-5" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
					<p>
						<span>O vast Rondure, swimming in space,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cover’d all over with visible power and beauty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alternate light and day and the teeming spiritual darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unspeakable high processions of sun and moon and countless stars above,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Below, the manifold grass and waters, animals, mountains, trees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With inscrutable purpose, some hidden prophetic intention,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now first it seems my thought begins to span thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Down from the gardens of Asia descending radiating,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Adam and Eve appear, then their myriad progeny after them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wandering, yearning, curious, with restless explorations,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With questionings, baffled, formless, feverish, with never-happy hearts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With that sad incessant refrain, <q>Wherefore unsatisfied soul?</q> and <q>Whither O mocking life?</q></span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ah who shall soothe these feverish children?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who justify these restless explorations?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who speak the secret of impassive earth?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who bind it to us? what is this separate Nature so unnatural?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What is this earth to our affections? (unloving earth, without a throb to answer ours,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cold earth, the place of graves.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Yet soul be sure the first intent remains, and shall be carried out,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Perhaps even now the time has arrived.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>After the seas are all cross’d, (as they seem already cross’d,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>After the great captains and engineers have accomplish’d their work,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>After the noble inventors, after the scientists, the chemist, the geologist, ethnologist,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Finally shall come the poet worthy that name,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The true son of God shall come singing his songs.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Then not your deeds only O voyagers, O scientists and inventors, shall be justified,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All these hearts as of fretted children shall be sooth’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All affection shall be fully responded to, the secret shall be told,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All these separations and gaps shall be taken up and hook’d and link’d together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The whole earth, this cold, impassive, voiceless earth, shall be completely justified,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Trinitas divine shall be gloriously accomplish’d and compacted by the true son of God, the poet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(He shall indeed pass the straits and conquer the mountains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He shall double the cape of Good Hope to some purpose,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nature and Man shall be disjoin’d and diffused no more,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The true son of God shall absolutely fuse them.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-6" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Year at whose wide-flung door I sing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Year of the purpose accomplish’d!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Year of the marriage of continents, climates and oceans!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(No mere doge of Venice now wedding the Adriatic,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see O year in you the vast terraqueous globe given and giving all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Europe to Asia, Africa join’d, and they to the New World,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lands, geographies, dancing before you, holding a festival garland,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As brides and bridegrooms hand in hand.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Passage to India!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cooling airs from Caucasus far, soothing cradle of man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The river Euphrates flowing, the past lit up again.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Lo soul, the retrospect brought forward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The old, most populous, wealthiest of earth’s lands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The streams of the Indus and the Ganges and their many affluents,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(I my shores of America walking to-day behold, resuming all,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The tale of Alexander on his warlike marches suddenly dying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On one side China and on the other side Persia and Arabia,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the south the great seas and the bay of Bengal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The flowing literatures, tremendous epics, religions, castes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Old occult Brahma interminably far back, the tender and junior Buddha,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Central and southern empires and all their belongings, possessors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The wars of Tamerlane, the reign of Aurungzebe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The traders, rulers, explorers, Moslems, Venetians, Byzantium, the Arabs, Portuguese,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The first travelers famous yet, Marco Polo, Batouta the Moor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Doubts to be solv’d, the map incognita, blanks to be fill’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The foot of man unstay’d, the hands never at rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thyself O soul that will not brook a challenge.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The mediaeval navigators rise before me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The world of 1492, with its awaken’d enterprise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Something swelling in humanity now like the sap of the earth in spring,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sunset splendor of chivalry declining.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And who art thou sad shade?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gigantic, visionary, thyself a visionary,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With majestic limbs and pious beaming eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spreading around with every look of thine a golden world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Enhuing it with gorgeous hues.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>As the chief histrion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Down to the footlights walks in some great scena,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dominating the rest I see the Admiral himself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(History’s type of courage, action, faith,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behold him sail from Palos leading his little fleet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His voyage behold, his return, his great fame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His misfortunes, calumniators, behold him a prisoner, chain’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behold his dejection, poverty, death.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(Curious in time I stand, noting the efforts of heroes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is the deferment long? bitter the slander, poverty, death?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lies the seed unreck’d for centuries in the ground? lo, to God’s due occasion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Uprising in the night, it sprouts, blooms,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And fills the earth with use and beauty.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-7" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">7</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Passage indeed O soul to primal thought,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not lands and seas alone, thy own clear freshness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The young maturity of brood and bloom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To realms of budding bibles.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O soul, repressless, I with thee and thou with me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thy circumnavigation of the world begin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of man, the voyage of his mind’s return,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To reason’s early paradise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Back, back to wisdom’s birth, to innocent intuitions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Again with fair creation.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-8" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">8</h3>
					<p>
						<span>O we can wait no longer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We too take ship O soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Joyous we too launch out on trackless seas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fearless for unknown shores on waves of ecstasy to sail,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amid the wafting winds, (thou pressing me to thee, I thee to me, O soul,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Caroling free, singing our song of God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chanting our chant of pleasant exploration.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>With laugh and many a kiss,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Let others deprecate, let others weep for sin, remorse, humiliation,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O soul thou pleasest me, I thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ah more than any priest O soul we too believe in God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But with the mystery of God we dare not dally.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O soul thou pleasest me, I thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sailing these seas or on the hills, or waking in the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thoughts, silent thoughts, of Time and Space and Death, like waters flowing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bear me indeed as through the regions infinite,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose air I breathe, whose ripples hear, lave me all over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bathe me O God in thee, mounting to thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I and my soul to range in range of thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O Thou transcendent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nameless, the fibre and the breath,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Light of the light, shedding forth universes, thou centre of them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou mightier centre of the true, the good, the loving,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou moral, spiritual fountain⁠—affection’s source⁠—thou reservoir,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(O pensive soul of me⁠—O thirst unsatisfied⁠—waitest not there?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Waitest not haply for us somewhere there the Comrade perfect?)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou pulse⁠—thou motive of the stars, suns, systems,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That, circling, move in order, safe, harmonious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Athwart the shapeless vastnesses of space,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How should I think, how breathe a single breath, how speak, if, out of myself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I could not launch, to those, superior universes?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Swiftly I shrivel at the thought of God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At Nature and its wonders, Time and Space and Death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But that I, turning, call to thee O soul, thou actual Me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And lo, thou gently masterest the orbs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou matest Time, smilest content at Death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And fillest, swellest full the vastnesses of Space.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Greater than stars or suns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bounding O soul thou journeyest forth;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What love than thine and ours could wider amplify?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What aspirations, wishes, outvie thine and ours O soul?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What dreams of the ideal? what plans of purity, perfection, strength,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What cheerful willingness for others’ sake to give up all?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For others’ sake to suffer all?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Reckoning ahead O soul, when thou, the time achiev’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The seas all cross’d, weather’d the capes, the voyage done,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Surrounded, copest, frontest God, yieldest, the aim attain’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As fill’d with friendship, love complete, the Elder Brother found,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Younger melts in fondness in his arms.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="passage-to-india-9" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">9</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Passage to more than India!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are thy wings plumed indeed for such far flights?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O soul, voyagest thou indeed on voyages like those?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Disportest thou on waters such as those?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Soundest below the Sanscrit and the Vedas?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then have thy bent unleash’d.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Passage to you, your shores, ye aged fierce enigmas!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passage to you, to mastership of you, ye strangling problems!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You, strew’d with the wrecks of skeletons, that, living, never reach’d you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Passage to more than India!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O secret of the earth and sky!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of you O waters of the sea! O winding creeks and rivers!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of you O woods and fields! of you strong mountains of my land!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of you O prairies! of you gray rocks!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O morning red! O clouds! O rain and snows!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O day and night, passage to you!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O sun and moon and all you stars! Sirius and Jupiter!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Passage to you!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Passage, immediate passage! the blood burns in my veins!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Away O soul! hoist instantly the anchor!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Cut the hawsers⁠—haul out⁠—shake out every sail!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have we not stood here like trees in the ground long enough?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have we not grovel’d here long enough, eating and drinking like mere brutes?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have we not darken’d and dazed ourselves with books long enough?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Sail forth⁠—steer for the deep waters only,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Reckless O soul, exploring, I with thee, and thou with me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For we are bound where mariner has not yet dared to go,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And we will risk the ship, ourselves and all.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O my brave soul!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O farther farther sail!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O daring joy, but safe! are they not all the seas of God?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O farther, farther, farther sail!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
