<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Prayer of Columbus</title>
<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="prayer-of-columbus" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer of Columbus</h2>
<article id="prayer-of-columbus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
		<p>
			<span>A batter’d, wreck’d old man,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thrown on this savage shore, far, far from home,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Pent by the sea and dark rebellious brows, twelve dreary months,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Sore, stiff with many toils, sicken’d and nigh to death,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I take my way along the island’s edge,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Venting a heavy heart.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am too full of woe!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Haply I may not live another day;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I cannot rest O God, I cannot eat or drink or sleep,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Till I put forth myself, my prayer, once more to Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Breathe, bathe myself once more in Thee, commune with Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Report myself once more to Thee.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Thou knowest my years entire, my life,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My long and crowded life of active work, not adoration merely;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thou knowest the prayers and vigils of my youth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thou knowest my manhood’s solemn and visionary meditations,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thou knowest how before I commenced I devoted all to come to Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thou knowest I have in age ratified all those vows and strictly kept them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thou knowest I have not once lost nor faith nor ecstasy in Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In shackles, prison’d, in disgrace, repining not,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Accepting all from Thee, as duly come from Thee.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>All my emprises have been fill’d with Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My speculations, plans, begun and carried on in thoughts of Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Sailing the deep or journeying the land for Thee;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Intentions, purports, aspirations mine, leaving results to Thee.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>O I am sure they really came from Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The urge, the ardor, the unconquerable will,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The potent, felt, interior command, stronger than words,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A message from the Heavens whispering to me even in sleep,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>These sped me on.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>By me and these the work so far accomplish’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>By me earth’s elder cloy’d and stifled lands uncloy’d, unloos’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>By me the hemispheres rounded and tied, the unknown to the known.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The end I know not, it is all in Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Or small or great I know not—haply what broad fields, what lands,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Haply the brutish measureless human undergrowth I know,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Transplanted there may rise to stature, knowledge worthy Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Haply the swords I know may there indeed be turn’d to reaping-tools,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Haply the lifeless cross I know, Europe’s dead cross, may bud and blossom there.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>One effort more, my altar this bleak sand;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That Thou O God my life hast lighted,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>With ray of light, steady, ineffable, vouchsafed of Thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Light rare untellable, lighting the very light,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Beyond all signs, descriptions, languages;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For that O God, be it my latest word, here on my knees,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Old, poor, and paralyzed, I thank Thee.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My terminus near,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The clouds already closing in upon me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The voyage balk’d, the course disputed, lost,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I yield my ships to Thee.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My hands, my limbs grow nerveless,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My brain feels rack’d, bewilder’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Let the old timbers part, I will not part,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I will cling fast to Thee, O God, though the waves buffet me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thee, Thee at least I know.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Is it the prophet’s thought I speak, or am I raving?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What do I know of life? what of myself?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I know not even my own work past or present,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Dim ever-shifting guesses of it spread before me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Of newer better worlds, their mighty parturition,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Mocking, perplexing me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>And these things I see suddenly, what mean they?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>As if some miracle, some hand divine unseal’d my eyes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Shadowy vast shapes smile through the air and sky,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And on the distant waves sail countless ships,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And anthems in new tongues I hear saluting me.</span>
		</p>
</article>
</section>
</body>
</html>
