<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Proud Music of the Storm</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="proud-music-of-the-storm" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Proud Music of the Storm</h2>
			<article id="proud-music-of-the-storm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<section id="proud-music-of-the-storm-1" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Proud music of the storm,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blast that careers so free, whistling across the prairies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Strong hum of forest tree-tops—wind of the mountains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Personified dim shapes—you hidden orchestras,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You serenades of phantoms with instruments alert,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Blending with Nature’s rhythmus all the tongues of nations;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You chords left as by vast composers—you choruses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You formless, free, religious dances—you from the Orient,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You undertone of rivers, roar of pouring cataracts,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You sounds from distant guns with galloping cavalry,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Echoes of camps with all the different bugle-calls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Trooping tumultuous, filling the midnight late, bending me powerless,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Entering my lonesome slumber-chamber, why have you seiz’d me?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="proud-music-of-the-storm-2" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Come forward O my soul, and let the rest retire,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Listen, lose not, it is toward thee they tend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Parting the midnight, entering my slumber-chamber,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For thee they sing and dance O soul.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A festival song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The duet of the bridegroom and the bride, a marriage-march,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With lips of love, and hearts of lovers fill’d to the brim with love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The red-flush’d cheeks and perfumes, the cortege swarming full of friendly faces young and old,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To flutes’ clear notes and sounding harps’ cantabile.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Now loud approaching drums,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Victoria! see’st thou in powder-smoke the banners torn but flying? the rout of the baffled?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hearest those shouts of a conquering army?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(Ah soul, the sobs of women, the wounded groaning in agony,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hiss and crackle of flames, the blacken’d ruins, the embers of cities,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dirge and desolation of mankind.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Now airs antique and mediaeval fill me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see and hear old harpers with their harps at Welsh festivals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the minnesingers singing their lays of love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the minstrels, gleemen, troubadours, of the middle ages.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Now the great organ sounds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tremulous, while underneath, (as the hid footholds of the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On which arising rest, and leaping forth depend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All shapes of beauty, grace and strength, all hues we know,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Green blades of grass and warbling birds, children that gambol and play, the clouds of heaven above,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The strong base stands, and its pulsations intermits not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bathing, supporting, merging all the rest, maternity of all the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And with it every instrument in multitudes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The players playing, all the world’s musicians,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The solemn hymns and masses rousing adoration,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All passionate heart-chants, sorrowful appeals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The measureless sweet vocalists of ages,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And for their solvent setting earth’s own diapason,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of winds and woods and mighty ocean waves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A new composite orchestra, binder of years and climes, ten-fold renewer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As of the far-back days the poets tell, the Paradiso,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The straying thence, the separation long, but now the wandering done,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The journey done, the journeyman come home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And man and art with Nature fused again.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Tutti! for earth and heaven;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(The Almighty leader now for once has signal’d with his wand.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The manly strophe of the husbands of the world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all the wives responding.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The tongues of violins,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(I think O tongues ye tell this heart, that cannot tell itself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This brooding yearning heart, that cannot tell itself.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="proud-music-of-the-storm-3" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Ah from a little child,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou knowest soul how to me all sounds became music,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My mother’s voice in lullaby or hymn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(The voice, O tender voices, memory’s loving voices,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Last miracle of all, O dearest mother’s, sister’s, voices;)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rain, the growing corn, the breeze among the long-leav’d corn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The measur’d sea-surf beating on the sand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The twittering bird, the hawk’s sharp scream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The wild-fowl’s notes at night as flying low migrating north or south,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The psalm in the country church or mid the clustering trees, the open air camp-meeting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fiddler in the tavern, the glee, the long-strung sailor-song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lowing cattle, bleating sheep, the crowing cock at dawn.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>All songs of current lands come sounding round me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The German airs of friendship, wine and love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Irish ballads, merry jigs and dances, English warbles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chansons of France, Scotch tunes, and o’er the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Italia’s peerless compositions.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Across the stage with pallor on her face, yet lurid passion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stalks Norma brandishing the dagger in her hand.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I see poor crazed Lucia’s eyes’ unnatural gleam,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hair down her back falls loose and dishevel’d.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I see where Ernani walking the bridal garden,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Amid the scent of night-roses, radiant, holding his bride by the hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hears the infernal call, the death-pledge of the horn.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To crossing swords and gray hairs bared to heaven,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The clear electric base and baritone of the world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The trombone duo, Libertad forever!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From Spanish chestnut trees’ dense shade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By old and heavy convent walls a wailing song,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Song of lost love, the torch of youth and life quench’d in despair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Song of the dying swan, Fernando’s heart is breaking.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Awaking from her woes at last retriev’d Amina sings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Copious as stars and glad as morning light the torrents of her joy.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(The teeming lady comes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The lustrous orb, Venus contralto, the blooming mother,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sister of loftiest gods, Alboni’s self I hear.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="proud-music-of-the-storm-4" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I hear those odes, symphonies, operas,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear in the <i>William Tell</i> the music of an arous’d and angry people,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear Meyerbeer’s <i>Huguenots</i>, the <i>Prophet</i>, or <i>Robert</i>,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gounod’s <i>Faust</i>, or Mozart’s <i>Don Juan</i>.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I hear the dance-music of all nations,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The waltz, some delicious measure, lapsing, bathing me in bliss,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bolero to tinkling guitars and clattering castanets.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I see religious dances old and new,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the sound of the Hebrew lyre,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the crusaders marching bearing the cross on high, to the martial clang of cymbals,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear dervishes monotonously chanting, interspers’d with frantic shouts, as they spin around turning always towards Mecca,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the rapt religious dances of the Persians and the Arabs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Again, at Eleusis, home of Ceres, I see the modern Greeks dancing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear them clapping their hands as they bend their bodies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the metrical shuffling of their feet.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I see again the wild old Corybantian dance, the performers wounding each other,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the Roman youth to the shrill sound of flageolets throwing and catching their weapons,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As they fall on their knees and rise again.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I hear from the Mussulman mosque the muezzin calling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the worshippers within, nor form nor sermon, argument nor word,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But silent, strange, devout, rais’d, glowing heads, ecstatic faces.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I hear the Egyptian harp of many strings,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The primitive chants of the Nile boatmen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sacred imperial hymns of China,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the delicate sounds of the king, (the stricken wood and stone,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or to Hindu flutes and the fretting twang of the vina,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A band of bayaderes.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="proud-music-of-the-storm-5" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Now Asia, Africa leave me, Europe seizing inflates me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To organs huge and bands I hear as from vast concourses of voices,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Luther’s strong hymn <i>Ein’ feste Burg ist unser Gott</i>,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rossini’s <i>Stabat Mater dolorosa</i>,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or floating in some high cathedral dim with gorgeous color’d windows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The passionate <i>Agnus Dei</i> or <i>Gloria in Excelsis</i>.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Composers! mighty maestros!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And you, sweet singers of old lands, soprani, tenori, bassi!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To you a new bard caroling in the West,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Obeisant sends his love.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(Such led to thee O soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All senses, shows and objects, lead to thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But now it seems to me sound leads o’er all the rest.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I hear the annual singing of the children in St. Paul’s cathedral,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or, under the high roof of some colossal hall, the symphonies, oratorios of Beethoven, Handel, or Haydn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The <i>Creation</i> in billows of godhood laves me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Give me to hold all sounds, (I madly struggling cry,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fill me with all the voices of the universe,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Endow me with their throbbings, Nature’s also,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The tempests, waters, winds, operas and chants, marches and dances,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Utter, pour in, for I would take them all!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="proud-music-of-the-storm-6" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Then I woke softly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And pausing, questioning awhile the music of my dream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And questioning all those reminiscences, the tempest in its fury,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all the songs of sopranos and tenors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And those rapt oriental dances of religious fervor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the sweet varied instruments, and the diapason of organs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all the artless plaints of love and grief and death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I said to my silent curious soul out of the bed of the slumber-chamber,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come, for I have found the clew I sought so long,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let us go forth refresh’d amid the day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cheerfully tallying life, walking the world, the real,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nourish’d henceforth by our celestial dream.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And I said, moreover,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Haply what thou hast heard O soul was not the sound of winds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor dream of raging storm, nor sea-hawk’s flapping wings nor harsh scream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor vocalism of sun-bright Italy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor German organ majestic, nor vast concourse of voices, nor layers of harmonies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor strophes of husbands and wives, nor sound of marching soldiers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nor flutes, nor harps, nor the bugle-calls of camps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But to a new rhythmus fitted for thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Poems bridging the way from Life to Death, vaguely wafted in night air, uncaught, unwritten,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which let us go forth in the bold day and write.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
