<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Sea-Drift</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="sea-drift" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sea-Drift</h2>
			<article id="out-of-the-cradle-endlessly-rocking" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Out of the cradle endlessly rocking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the mocking-bird’s throat, the musical shuttle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the Ninth-month midnight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the sterile sands and the fields beyond, where the child leaving his bed wander’d alone, bareheaded, barefoot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down from the shower’d halo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up from the mystic play of shadows twining and twisting as if they were alive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out from the patches of briers and blackberries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the memories of the bird that chanted to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your memories sad brother, from the fitful risings and fallings I heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From under that yellow half-moon late-risen and swollen as if with tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From those beginning notes of yearning and love there in the mist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the thousand responses of my heart never to cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the myriad thence-arous’d words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the word stronger and more delicious than any,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From such as now they start the scene revisiting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a flock, twittering, rising, or overhead passing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Borne hither, ere all eludes me, hurriedly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man, yet by these tears a little boy again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throwing myself on the sand, confronting the waves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, chanter of pains and joys, uniter of here and hereafter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking all hints to use them, but swiftly leaping beyond them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A reminiscence sing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once Paumanok,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the lilac-scent was in the air and Fifth-month grass was growing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up this seashore in some briers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two feather’d guests from Alabama, two together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And their nest, and four light-green eggs spotted with brown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every day the he-bird to and fro near at hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every day the she-bird crouch’d on her nest, silent, with bright eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every day I, a curious boy, never too close, never disturbing them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cautiously peering, absorbing, translating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Shine! shine! shine!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Pour down your warmth, great sun!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>While we bask, we two together.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Two together!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Winds blow south, or winds blow north,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Day come white, or night come black,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Home, or rivers and mountains from home,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Singing all time, minding no time,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>While we two keep together.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Till of a sudden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May-be kill’d, unknown to her mate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One forenoon the she-bird crouch’d not on the nest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor return’d that afternoon, nor the next,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ever appear’d again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And thenceforward all summer in the sound of the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at night under the full of the moon in calmer weather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the hoarse surging of the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or flitting from brier to brier by day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw, I heard at intervals the remaining one, the he-bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The solitary guest from Alabama.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Blow! blow! blow!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Blow up sea-winds along Paumanok’s shore;</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>I wait and I wait till you blow my mate to me.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, when the stars glisten’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All night long on the prong of a moss-scallop’d stake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down almost amid the slapping waves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sat the lone singer wonderful causing tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He call’d on his mate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He pour’d forth the meanings which I of all men know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes my brother I know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rest might not, but I have treasur’d every note,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For more than once dimly down to the beach gliding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent, avoiding the moonbeams, blending myself with the shadows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recalling now the obscure shapes, the echoes, the sounds and sights after their sorts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The white arms out in the breakers tirelessly tossing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, with bare feet, a child, the wind wafting my hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listen’d long and long.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Listen’d to keep, to sing, now translating the notes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Following you my brother.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Soothe! soothe! soothe!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Close on its wave soothes the wave behind,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>And again another behind embracing and lapping, every one close,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>But my love soothes not me, not me.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Low hangs the moon, it rose late,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>It is lagging⁠—O I think it is heavy with love, with love.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>O madly the sea pushes upon the land,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>With love, with love.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>O night! do I not see my love fluttering out among the breakers?</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>What is that little black thing I see there in the white?</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Loud! loud! loud!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Loud I call to you, my love!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>High and clear I shoot my voice over the waves,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Surely you must know who is here, is here,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>You must know who I am, my love.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Low-hanging moon!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>What is that dusky spot in your brown yellow?</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>O it is the shape, the shape of my mate!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>O moon do not keep her from me any longer.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Land! land! O land!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Whichever way I turn, O I think you could give me my mate back again if you only would,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>For I am almost sure I see her dimly whichever way I look.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>O rising stars!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Perhaps the one I want so much will rise, will rise with some of you.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>O throat! O trembling throat!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Sound clearer through the atmosphere!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Pierce the woods, the earth,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Somewhere listening to catch you must be the one I want.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Shake out carols!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Solitary here, the night’s carols!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Carols of lonesome love! death’s carols!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Carols under that lagging, yellow, waning moon!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>O under that moon where she droops almost down into the sea!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>O reckless despairing carols.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>But soft! sink low!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Soft! let me just murmur,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>And do you wait a moment you husky-nois’d sea,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>For somewhere I believe I heard my mate responding to me,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>So faint, I must be still, be still to listen,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>But not altogether still, for then she might not come immediately to me.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Hither my love!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Here I am! here!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>With this just-sustain’d note I announce myself to you,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>This gentle call is for you my love, for you.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>Do not be decoy’d elsewhere,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>That is the whistle of the wind, it is not my voice,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>That is the fluttering, the fluttering of the spray,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Those are the shadows of leaves.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>O darkness! O in vain!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>O I am very sick and sorrowful.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>O brown halo in the sky near the moon, drooping upon the sea!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>O troubled reflection in the sea!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>O throat! O throbbing heart!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>And I singing uselessly, uselessly all the night.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<q>O past! O happy life! O songs of joy!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>In the air, in the woods, over fields,</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>Loved! loved! loved! loved! loved!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>But my mate no more, no more with me!</q>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<q>We two together no more.</q>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The aria sinking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All else continuing, the stars shining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winds blowing, the notes of the bird continuous echoing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With angry moans the fierce old mother incessantly moaning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the sands of Paumanok’s shore gray and rustling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The yellow half-moon enlarged, sagging down, drooping, the face of the sea almost touching,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boy ecstatic, with his bare feet the waves, with his hair the atmosphere dallying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The love in the heart long pent, now loose, now at last tumultuously bursting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The aria’s meaning, the ears, the soul, swiftly depositing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strange tears down the cheeks coursing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The colloquy there, the trio, each uttering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The undertone, the savage old mother incessantly crying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the boy’s soul’s questions sullenly timing, some drown’d secret hissing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the outsetting bard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Demon or bird! (said the boy’s soul,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it indeed toward your mate you sing? or is it really to me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I, that was a child, my tongue’s use sleeping, now I have heard you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now in a moment I know what I am for, I awake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And already a thousand singers, a thousand songs, clearer, louder and more sorrowful than yours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand warbling echoes have started to life within me, never to die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O you singer solitary, singing by yourself, projecting me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O solitary me listening, never more shall I cease perpetuating you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never more shall I escape, never more the reverberations,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never more the cries of unsatisfied love be absent from me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never again leave me to be the peaceful child I was before what there in the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the sea under the yellow and sagging moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The messenger there arous’d, the fire, the sweet hell within,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unknown want, the destiny of me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O give me the clew! (it lurks in the night here somewhere,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O if I am to have so much, let me have more!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A word then, (for I will conquer it,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The word final, superior to all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Subtle, sent up⁠—what is it?⁠—I listen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you whispering it, and have been all the time, you sea-waves?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is that it from your liquid rims and wet sands?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whereto answering, the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delaying not, hurrying not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whisper’d me through the night, and very plainly before daybreak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lisp’d to me the low and delicious word death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And again death, death, death, death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hissing melodious, neither like the bird nor like my arous’d child’s heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But edging near as privately for me rustling at my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Creeping thence steadily up to my ears and laving me softly all over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death, death, death, death, death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Which I do not forget,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But fuse the song of my dusky demon and brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he sang to me in the moonlight on Paumanok’s gray beach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the thousand responsive songs at random,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My own songs awaked from that hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with them the key, the word up from the waves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The word of the sweetest song and all songs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That strong and delicious word which, creeping to my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Or like some old crone rocking the cradle, swathed in sweet garments, bending aside,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea whisper’d me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="as-i-ebbd-with-the-ocean-of-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">As I Ebb’d with the Ocean of Life</h3>
				<section id="as-i-ebbd-with-the-ocean-of-life-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>As I ebb’d with the ocean of life,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I wended the shores I know,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I walk’d where the ripples continually wash you Paumanok,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where they rustle up hoarse and sibilant,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where the fierce old mother endlessly cries for her castaways,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I musing late in the autumn day, gazing off southward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Held by this electric self out of the pride of which I utter poems,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was seiz’d by the spirit that trails in the lines underfoot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rim, the sediment that stands for all the water and all the land of the globe.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Fascinated, my eyes reverting from the south, dropt, to follow those slender windrows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chaff, straw, splinters of wood, weeds, and the sea-gluten,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Scum, scales from shining rocks, leaves of salt-lettuce, left by the tide,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Miles walking, the sound of breaking waves the other side of me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Paumanok there and then as I thought the old thought of likenesses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These you presented to me you fish-shaped island,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I wended the shores I know,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I walk’d with that electric self seeking types.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="as-i-ebbd-with-the-ocean-of-life-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>As I wend to the shores I know not,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I list to the dirge, the voices of men and women wreck’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I inhale the impalpable breezes that set in upon me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As the ocean so mysterious rolls toward me closer and closer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I too but signify at the utmost a little wash’d-up drift,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A few sands and dead leaves to gather,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gather, and merge myself as part of the sands and drift.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O baffled, balk’d, bent to the very earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oppress’d with myself that I have dared to open my mouth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Aware now that amid all that blab whose echoes recoil upon me I have not once had the least idea who or what I am,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But that before all my arrogant poems the real Me stands yet untouch’d, untold, altogether unreach’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Withdrawn far, mocking me with mock-congratulatory signs and bows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With peals of distant ironical laughter at every word I have written,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pointing in silence to these songs, and then to the sand beneath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I perceive I have not really understood any thing, not a single object, and that no man ever can,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nature here in sight of the sea taking advantage of me to dart upon me and sting me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Because I have dared to open my mouth to sing at all.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="as-i-ebbd-with-the-ocean-of-life-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">3</h4>
					<p>
						<span>You oceans both, I close with you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We murmur alike reproachfully rolling sands and drift, knowing not why,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These little shreds indeed standing for you and me and all.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>You friable shore with trails of debris,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You fish-shaped island, I take what is underfoot,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What is yours is mine my father.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I too Paumanok,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I too have bubbled up, floated the measureless float, and been wash’d on your shores,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I too am but a trail of drift and debris,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I too leave little wrecks upon you, you fish-shaped island.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I throw myself upon your breast my father,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I cling to you so that you cannot unloose me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hold you so firm till you answer me something.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Kiss me my father,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Touch me with your lips as I touch those I love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Breathe to me while I hold you close the secret of the murmuring I envy.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="as-i-ebbd-with-the-ocean-of-life-4" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">4</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Ebb, ocean of life, (the flow will return,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cease not your moaning you fierce old mother,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Endlessly cry for your castaways, but fear not, deny not me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rustle not up so hoarse and angry against my feet as I touch you or gather from you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I mean tenderly by you and all,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I gather for myself and for this phantom looking down where we lead, and following me and mine.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Me and mine, loose windrows, little corpses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Froth, snowy white, and bubbles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(See, from my dead lips the ooze exuding at last,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See, the prismatic colors glistening and rolling,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tufts of straw, sands, fragments,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Buoy’d hither from many moods, one contradicting another,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the storm, the long calm, the darkness, the swell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Musing, pondering, a breath, a briny tear, a dab of liquid or soil,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up just as much out of fathomless workings fermented and thrown,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A limp blossom or two, torn, just as much over waves floating, drifted at random,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Just as much for us that sobbing dirge of Nature,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Just as much whence we come that blare of the cloud-trumpets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We, capricious, brought hither we know not whence, spread out before you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You up there walking or sitting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whoever you are, we too lie in drifts at your feet.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="tears" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tears</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tears! tears! tears!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the night, in solitude, tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the white shore dripping, dripping, suck’d in by the sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tears, not a star shining, all dark and desolate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moist tears from the eyes of a muffled head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O who is that ghost? that form in the dark, with tears?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What shapeless lump is that, bent, crouch’d there on the sand?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Streaming tears, sobbing tears, throes, choked with wild cries;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O storm, embodied, rising, careering with swift steps along the beach!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O wild and dismal night storm, with wind⁠—O belching and desperate!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O shade so sedate and decorous by day, with calm countenance and regulated pace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But away at night as you fly, none looking⁠—O then the unloosen’d ocean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tears! tears! tears!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-the-man-of-war-bird" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To the Man-of-War-Bird</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thou who hast slept all night upon the storm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waking renew’d on thy prodigious pinions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Burst the wild storm? above it thou ascended’st,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rested on the sky, thy slave that cradled thee,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now a blue point, far, far in heaven floating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to the light emerging here on deck I watch thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Myself a speck, a point on the world’s floating vast.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far, far at sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the night’s fierce drifts have strewn the shore with wrecks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With re-appearing day as now so happy and serene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rosy and elastic dawn, the flashing sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The limpid spread of air cerulean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou also re-appearest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou born to match the gale, (thou art all wings,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cope with heaven and earth and sea and hurricane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou ship of air that never furl’st thy sails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Days, even weeks untired and onward, through spaces, realms gyrating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At dusk that look’st on Senegal, at morn America,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That sport’st amid the lightning-flash and thunder-cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In them, in thy experiences, had’st thou my soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What joys! what joys were thine!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="aboard-at-a-ships-helm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Aboard at a Ship’s Helm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Aboard at a ship’s helm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A young steersman steering with care.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through fog on a sea-coast dolefully ringing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An ocean-bell⁠—O a warning bell, rock’d by the waves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O you give good notice indeed, you bell by the sea-reefs ringing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ringing, ringing, to warn the ship from its wreck-place.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For as on the alert O steersman, you mind the loud admonition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bows turn, the freighted ship tacking speeds away under her gray sails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beautiful and noble ship with all her precious wealth speeds away gayly and safe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But O the ship, the immortal ship! O ship aboard the ship!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ship of the body, ship of the soul, voyaging, voyaging, voyaging.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-beach-at-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Beach at Night</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On the beach at night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stands a child with her father,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watching the east, the autumn sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Up through the darkness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While ravening clouds, the burial clouds, in black masses spreading,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lower sullen and fast athwart and down the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amid a transparent clear belt of ether yet left in the east,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ascends large and calm the lord-star Jupiter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nigh at hand, only a very little above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swim the delicate sisters the Pleiades.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the beach the child holding the hand of her father,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those burial clouds that lower victorious soon to devour all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watching, silently weeps.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Weep not, child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weep not, my darling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With these kisses let me remove your tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ravening clouds shall not long be victorious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shall not long possess the sky, they devour the stars only in apparition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jupiter shall emerge, be patient, watch again another night, the Pleiades shall emerge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are immortal, all those stars both silvery and golden shall shine out again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great stars and the little ones shall shine out again, they endure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vast immortal suns and the long-enduring pensive moons shall again shine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then dearest child mournest thou only for Jupiter?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Considerest thou alone the burial of the stars?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Something there is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(With my lips soothing thee, adding I whisper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I give thee the first suggestion, the problem and indirection,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something there is more immortal even than the stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Many the burials, many the days and nights, passing away,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something that shall endure longer even than lustrous Jupiter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Longer than sun or any revolving satellite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the radiant sisters the Pleiades.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-world-below-the-brine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The World Below the Brine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The world below the brine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forests at the bottom of the sea, the branches and leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sea-lettuce, vast lichens, strange flowers and seeds, the thick tangle, openings, and pink turf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Different colors, pale gray and green, purple, white, and gold, the play of light through the water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dumb swimmers there among the rocks, coral, gluten, grass, rushes, and the aliment of the swimmers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sluggish existences grazing there suspended, or slowly crawling close to the bottom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sperm-whale at the surface blowing air and spray, or disporting with his flukes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leaden-eyed shark, the walrus, the turtle, the hairy sea-leopard, and the sting-ray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passions there, wars, pursuits, tribes, sight in those ocean-depths, breathing that thick-breathing air, as so many do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The change thence to the sight here, and to the subtle air breathed by beings like us who walk this sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The change onward from ours to that of beings who walk other spheres.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-beach-at-night-alone" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Beach at Night Alone</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On the beach at night alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the old mother sways her to and fro singing her husky song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I watch the bright stars shining, I think a thought of the clef of the universes and of the future.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A vast similitude interlocks all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All spheres, grown, ungrown, small, large, suns, moons, planets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All distances of place however wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All distances of time, all inanimate forms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All souls, all living bodies though they be ever so different, or in different worlds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All gaseous, watery, vegetable, mineral processes, the fishes, the brutes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All nations, colors, barbarisms, civilizations, languages,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All identities that have existed or may exist on this globe, or any globe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All lives and deaths, all of the past, present, future,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This vast similitude spans them, and always has spann’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shall forever span them and compactly hold and enclose them.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="song-for-all-seas-all-ships" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Song for All Seas, All Ships</h3>
				<section id="song-for-all-seas-all-ships-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>To-day a rude brief recitative,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of ships sailing the seas, each with its special flag or ship-signal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of unnamed heroes in the ships⁠—of waves spreading and spreading far as the eye can reach,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of dashing spray, and the winds piping and blowing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And out of these a chant for the sailors of all nations,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fitful, like a surge.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Of sea-captains young or old, and the mates, and of all intrepid sailors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the few, very choice, taciturn, whom fate can never surprise nor death dismay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pick’d sparingly without noise by thee old ocean, chosen by thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Thou sea that pickest and cullest the race in time, and unitest nations,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suckled by thee, old husky nurse, embodying thee,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Indomitable, untamed as thee.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(Ever the heroes on water or on land, by ones or twos appearing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ever the stock preserv’d and never lost, though rare, enough for seed preserv’d.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="song-for-all-seas-all-ships-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Flaunt out O sea your separate flags of nations!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flaunt out visible as ever the various ship-signals!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But do you reserve especially for yourself and for the soul of man one flag above all the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A spiritual woven signal for all nations, emblem of man elate above death,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Token of all brave captains and all intrepid sailors and mates,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all that went down doing their duty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Reminiscent of them, twined from all intrepid captains young or old,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A pennant universal, subtly waving all time, o’er all brave sailors,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All seas, all ships.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="patroling-barnegat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Patroling Barnegat</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wild, wild the storm, and the sea high running,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steady the roar of the gale, with incessant undertone muttering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shouts of demoniac laughter fitfully piercing and pealing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waves, air, midnight, their savagest trinity lashing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out in the shadows there milk-white combs careering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On beachy slush and sand spirts of snow fierce slanting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where through the murk the easterly death-wind breasting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through cutting swirl and spray watchful and firm advancing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(That in the distance! is that a wreck? is the red signal flaring?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slush and sand of the beach tireless till daylight wending,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steadily, slowly, through hoarse roar never remitting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the midnight edge by those milk-white combs careering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A group of dim, weird forms, struggling, the night confronting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That savage trinity warily watching.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="after-the-sea-ship" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">After the Sea-Ship</h3>
				<p>
					<span>After the sea-ship, after the whistling winds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the white-gray sails taut to their spars and ropes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Below, a myriad myriad waves hastening, lifting up their necks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tending in ceaseless flow toward the track of the ship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waves of the ocean bubbling and gurgling, blithely prying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waves, undulating waves, liquid, uneven, emulous waves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toward that whirling current, laughing and buoyant, with curves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the great vessel sailing and tacking displaced the surface,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Larger and smaller waves in the spread of the ocean yearnfully flowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wake of the sea-ship after she passes, flashing and frolicsome under the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A motley procession with many a fleck of foam and many fragments,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Following the stately and rapid ship, in the wake following.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
