<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Songs of Parting</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="songs-of-parting" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Songs of Parting</h2>
			<article id="as-the-time-draws-nigh" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">As the Time Draws Nigh</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As the time draws nigh glooming a cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dread beyond of I know not what darkens me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I shall go forth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall traverse the States awhile, but I cannot tell whither or how long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps soon some day or night while I am singing my voice will suddenly cease.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O book, O chants! must all then amount to but this?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must we barely arrive at this beginning of us?⁠—and yet it is enough, O soul;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O soul, we have positively appear’d⁠—that is enough.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="years-of-the-modern" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Years of the Modern</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Years of the modern! years of the unperform’d!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your horizon rises, I see it parting away for more august dramas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see not America only, not only Liberty’s nation but other nations preparing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see tremendous entrances and exits, new combinations, the solidarity of races,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see that force advancing with irresistible power on the world’s stage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Have the old forces, the old wars, played their parts? are the acts suitable to them closed?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see Freedom, completely arm’d and victorious and very haughty, with Law on one side and Peace on the other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stupendous trio all issuing forth against the idea of caste;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What historic denouements are these we so rapidly approach?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see men marching and countermarching by swift millions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the frontiers and boundaries of the old aristocracies broken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see the landmarks of European kings removed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see this day the People beginning their landmarks, (all others give way;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never were such sharp questions ask’d as this day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never was average man, his soul, more energetic, more like a God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, how he urges and urges, leaving the masses no rest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His daring foot is on land and sea everywhere, he colonizes the Pacific, the archipelagoes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the steamship, the electric telegraph, the newspaper, the wholesale engines of war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With these and the world-spreading factories he interlinks all geography, all lands;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What whispers are these O lands, running ahead of you, passing under the seas?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are all nations communing? is there going to be but one heart to the globe?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is humanity forming en-masse? for lo, tyrants tremble, crowns grow dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The earth, restive, confronts a new era, perhaps a general divine war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No one knows what will happen next, such portents fill the days and nights;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Years prophetical! the space ahead as I walk, as I vainly try to pierce it, is full of phantoms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unborn deeds, things soon to be, project their shapes around me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This incredible rush and heat, this strange ecstatic fever of dreams O years!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your dreams O years, how they penetrate through me! (I know not whether I sleep or wake;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The perform’d America and Europe grow dim, retiring in shadow behind me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unperform’d, more gigantic than ever, advance, advance upon me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ashes-of-soldiers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ashes of Soldiers</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ashes of soldiers South or North,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I muse retrospective murmuring a chant in thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The war resumes, again to my sense your shapes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And again the advance of the armies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Noiseless as mists and vapors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From their graves in the trenches ascending,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From cemeteries all through Virginia and Tennessee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every point of the compass out of the countless graves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In wafted clouds, in myriads large, or squads of twos or threes or single ones they come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silently gather round me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now sound no note O trumpeters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not at the head of my cavalry parading on spirited horses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sabres drawn and glistening, and carbines by their thighs, (ah my brave horsemen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My handsome tan-faced horsemen! what life, what joy and pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all the perils were yours.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor you drummers, neither at reveillé at dawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the long roll alarming the camp, nor even the muffled beat for a burial,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing from you this time O drummers bearing my warlike drums.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But aside from these and the marts of wealth and the crowded promenade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admitting around me comrades close unseen by the rest and voiceless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slain elate and alive again, the dust and debris alive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I chant this chant of my silent soul in the name of all dead soldiers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Faces so pale with wondrous eyes, very dear, gather closer yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Draw close, but speak not.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Phantoms of countless lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invisible to the rest henceforth become my companions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Follow me ever⁠—desert me not while I live.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet are the blooming cheeks of the living⁠—sweet are the musical voices sounding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sweet, ah sweet, are the dead with their silent eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dearest comrades, all is over and long gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But love is not over⁠—and what love, O comrades!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perfume from battle-fields rising, up from the foetor arising.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perfume therefore my chant, O love, immortal love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give me to bathe the memories of all dead soldiers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shroud them, embalm them, cover them all over with tender pride.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perfume all⁠—make all wholesome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make these ashes to nourish and blossom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O love, solve all, fructify all with the last chemistry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give me exhaustless, make me a fountain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I exhale love from me wherever I go like a moist perennial dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the ashes of all dead soldiers South or North.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thoughts-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thoughts</h3>
				<section id="thoughts-3-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">1</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Of these years I sing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How they pass and have pass’d through convuls’d pains, as through parturitions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How America illustrates birth, muscular youth, the promise, the sure fulfilment, the absolute success, despite of people⁠—illustrates evil as well as good,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The vehement struggle so fierce for unity in one’s-self;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How many hold despairingly yet to the models departed, caste, myths, obedience, compulsion, and to infidelity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How few see the arrived models, the athletes, the Western States, or see freedom or spirituality, or hold any faith in results,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(But I see the athletes, and I see the results of the war glorious and inevitable, and they again leading to other results.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>How the great cities appear⁠—how the Democratic masses, turbulent, wilful, as I love them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How the whirl, the contest, the wrestle of evil with good, the sounding and resounding, keep on and on,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How society waits unform’d, and is for a while between things ended and things begun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How America is the continent of glories, and of the triumph of freedom and of the Democracies, and of the fruits of society, and of all that is begun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how the States are complete in themselves⁠—and how all triumphs and glories are complete in themselves, to lead onward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how these of mine and of the States will in their turn be convuls’d, and serve other parturitions and transitions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how all people, sights, combinations, the democratic masses too, serve⁠—and how every fact, and war itself, with all its horrors, serves,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And how now or at any time each serves the exquisite transition of death.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="thoughts-3-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal">2</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Of seeds dropping into the ground, of births,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the steady concentration of America, inland, upward, to impregnable and swarming places,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of what Indiana, Kentucky, Arkansas, and the rest, are to be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of what a few years will show there in Nebraska, Colorado, Nevada, and the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Or afar, mounting the Northern Pacific to Sitka or Aliaska,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of what the feuillage of America is the preparation for⁠—and of what all sights, North, South, East and West, are,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of this Union welded in blood, of the solemn price paid, of the unnamed lost ever present in my mind;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the temporary use of materials for identity’s sake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the present, passing, departing⁠—of the growth of completer men than any yet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all sloping down there where the fresh free giver the mother, the Mississippi flows,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of mighty inland cities yet unsurvey’d and unsuspected,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the new and good names, of the modern developments, of inalienable homesteads,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of a free and original life there, of simple diet and clean and sweet blood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of litheness, majestic faces, clear eyes, and perfect physique there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of immense spiritual results future years far West, each side of the Anahuacs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of these songs, well understood there, (being made for that area,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the native scorn of grossness and gain there,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(O it lurks in me night and day⁠—what is gain after all to savageness and freedom?)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="song-at-sunset" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Song at Sunset</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Splendor of ended day floating and filling me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hour prophetic, hour resuming the past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inflating my throat, you divine average,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You earth and life till the last ray gleams I sing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Open mouth of my soul uttering gladness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eyes of my soul seeing perfection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Natural life of me faithfully praising things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Corroborating forever the triumph of things.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Illustrious every one!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Illustrious what we name space, sphere of unnumber’d spirits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Illustrious the mystery of motion in all beings, even the tiniest insect,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Illustrious the attribute of speech, the senses, the body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Illustrious the passing light⁠—illustrious the pale reflection on the new moon in the western sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Illustrious whatever I see or hear or touch, to the last.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good in all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the satisfaction and aplomb of animals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the annual return of the seasons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the hilarity of youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the strength and flush of manhood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the grandeur and exquisiteness of old age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the superb vistas of death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wonderful to depart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wonderful to be here!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heart, to jet the all-alike and innocent blood!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To breathe the air, how delicious!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To speak⁠—to walk⁠—to seize something by the hand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prepare for sleep, for bed, to look on my rose-color’d flesh!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be conscious of my body, so satisfied, so large!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be this incredible God I am!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have gone forth among other Gods, these men and women I love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wonderful how I celebrate you and myself!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How my thoughts play subtly at the spectacles around!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the clouds pass silently overhead!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the earth darts on and on! and how the sun, moon, stars, dart on and on!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the water sports and sings! (surely it is alive!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the trees rise and stand up, with strong trunks, with branches and leaves!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Surely there is something more in each of the trees, some living soul.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O amazement of things⁠—even the least particle!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O spirituality of things!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O strain musical flowing through ages and continents, now reaching me and America!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I take your strong chords, intersperse them, and cheerfully pass them forward.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I too carol the sun, usher’d or at noon, or as now, setting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too throb to the brain and beauty of the earth and of all the growths of the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I too have felt the resistless call of myself.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As I steam’d down the Mississippi,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I wander’d over the prairies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I have lived, as I have look’d through my windows my eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I went forth in the morning, as I beheld the light breaking in the east,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I bathed on the beach of the Eastern Sea, and again on the beach of the Western Sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I roam’d the streets of inland Chicago, whatever streets I have roam’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or cities or silent woods, or even amid the sights of war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever I have been I have charged myself with contentment and triumph.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I sing to the last the equalities modern or old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sing the endless finalès of things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I say Nature continues, glory continues,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I praise with electric voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I do not see one imperfection in the universe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I do not see one cause or result lamentable at last in the universe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O setting sun! though the time has come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I still warble under you, if none else does, unmitigated adoration.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="as-at-thy-portals-also-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">As at Thy Portals Also Death</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As at thy portals also death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entering thy sovereign, dim, illimitable grounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To memories of my mother, to the divine blending, maternity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To her, buried and gone, yet buried not, gone not from me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I see again the calm benignant face fresh and beautiful still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sit by the form in the coffin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I kiss and kiss convulsively again the sweet old lips, the cheeks, the closed eyes in the coffin;)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To her, the ideal woman, practical, spiritual, of all of earth, life, love, to me the best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I grave a monumental line, before I go, amid these songs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set a tombstone here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-legacy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Legacy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The business man the acquirer vast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After assiduous years surveying results, preparing for departure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devises houses and lands to his children, bequeaths stocks, goods, funds for a school or hospital,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaves money to certain companions to buy tokens, souvenirs of gems and gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But I, my life surveying, closing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With nothing to show to devise from its idle years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor houses nor lands, nor tokens of gems or gold for my friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet certain remembrances of the war for you, and after you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little souvenirs of camps and soldiers, with my love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bind together and bequeath in this bundle of songs.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="pensive-on-her-dead-gazing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Pensive on Her Dead Gazing</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pensive on her dead gazing I heard the Mother of All,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Desperate on the torn bodies, on the forms covering the battle-fields gazing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As the last gun ceased, but the scent of the powder-smoke linger’d,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As she call’d to her earth with mournful voice while she stalk’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Absorb them well O my earth, she cried, I charge you lose not my sons, lose not an atom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you streams absorb them well, taking their dear blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you local spots, and you airs that swim above lightly impalpable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all you essences of soil and growth, and you my rivers’ depths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you mountain sides, and the woods where my dear children’s blood trickling redden’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you trees down in your roots to bequeath to all future trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My dead absorb or South or North⁠—my young men’s bodies absorb, and their precious precious blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which holding in trust for me faithfully back again give me many a year hence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In unseen essence and odor of surface and grass, centuries hence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In blowing airs from the fields back again give me my darlings, give my immortal heroes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exhale me them centuries hence, breathe me their breath, let not an atom be lost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O years and graves! O air and soil! O my dead, an aroma sweet!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exhale them perennial sweet death, years, centuries hence.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="camps-of-green" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Camps of Green</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not alone those camps of white, old comrades of the wars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When as order’d forward, after a long march,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Footsore and weary, soon as the light lessens we halt for the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some of us so fatigued carrying the gun and knapsack, dropping asleep in our tracks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others pitching the little tents, and the fires lit up begin to sparkle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outposts of pickets posted surrounding alert through the dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a word provided for countersign, careful for safety,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till to the call of the drummers at daybreak loudly beating the drums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We rise up refresh’d, the night and sleep pass’d over, and resume our journey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or proceed to battle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo, the camps of the tents of green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which the days of peace keep filling, and the days of war keep filling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a mystic army, (is it too order’d forward? is it too only halting awhile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till night and sleep pass over?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now in those camps of green, in their tents dotting the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the parents, children, husbands, wives, in them, in the old and young,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleeping under the sunlight, sleeping under the moonlight, content and silent there at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold the mighty bivouac-field and waiting-camp of all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the corps and generals all, and the President over the corps and generals all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of each of us O soldiers, and of each and all in the ranks we fought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(There without hatred we all, all meet.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For presently O soldiers, we too camp in our place in the bivouac-camps of green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But we need not provide for outposts, nor word for the counter-sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor drummer to beat the morning drum.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-sobbing-of-the-bells" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Sobbing of the Bells</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Midnight, Sept. 19⁠–⁠20, 1881)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The sobbing of the bells, the sudden death-news everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slumberers rouse, the rapport of the People,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Full well they know that message in the darkness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full well return, respond within their breasts, their brains, the sad reverberations,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The passionate toll and clang⁠—city to city, joining, sounding, passing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those heart-beats of a Nation in the night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="as-they-draw-to-a-close" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">As They Draw to a Close</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As they draw to a close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what underlies the precedent songs⁠—of my aims in them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the seed I have sought to plant in them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of joy, sweet joy, through many a year, in them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For them, for them have I lived, in them my work is done,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of many an aspiration fond, of many a dream and plan;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through Space and Time fused in a chant, and the flowing eternal identity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Nature encompassing these, encompassing God⁠—to the joyous, electric all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the sense of Death, and accepting exulting in Death in its turn the same as life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The entrance of man to sing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To compact you, ye parted, diverse lives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To put rapport the mountains and rocks and streams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the winds of the north, and the forests of oak and pine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With you O soul.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="joy-shipmate-joy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Joy, Shipmate, Joy!</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Joy, shipmate, joy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Pleas’d to my soul at death I cry,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our life is closed, our life begins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long, long anchorage we leave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ship is clear at last, she leaps!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She swiftly courses from the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy, shipmate, joy!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-untold-want" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Untold Want</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The untold want by life and land ne’er granted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now voyager sail thou forth to seek and find.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="portals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Portals</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What are those of the known but to ascend and enter the Unknown?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what are those of life but for Death?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="these-carols" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">These Carols</h3>
				<p>
					<span>These carols sung to cheer my passage through the world I see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For completion I dedicate to the Invisible World.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="now-finalè-to-the-shore" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Now Finalè to the Shore</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Now finalè to the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now land and life finalè and farewell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now Voyager depart, (much, much for thee is yet in store,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Often enough hast thou adventur’d o’er the seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cautiously cruising, studying the charts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Duly again to port and hawser’s tie returning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now obey thy cherish’d secret wish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Embrace thy friends, leave all in order,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To port and hawser’s tie no more returning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Depart upon thy endless cruise old Sailor.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="so-long" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">So Long!</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To conclude, I announce what comes after me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I remember I said before my leaves sprang at all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would raise my voice jocund and strong with reference to consummations.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When America does what was promis’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When through these States walk a hundred millions of superb persons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the rest part away for superb persons and contribute to them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When breeds of the most perfect mothers denote America,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then to me and mine our due fruition.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have press’d through in my own right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have sung the body and the soul, war and peace have I sung, and the songs of life and death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the songs of birth, and shown that there are many births.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have offer’d my style to every one, I have journey’d with confident step;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While my pleasure is yet at the full I whisper <q>So long!</q></span>
					<br/>
					<span>And take the young woman’s hand and the young man’s hand for the last time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I announce natural persons to arise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce justice triumphant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce uncompromising liberty and equality,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce the justification of candor and the justification of pride.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I announce that the identity of these States is a single identity only,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce the Union more and more compact, indissoluble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce splendors and majesties to make all the previous politics of the earth insignificant.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I announce adhesiveness, I say it shall be limitless, unloosen’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I say you shall yet find the friend you were looking for.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I announce a man or woman coming, perhaps you are the one, (<q>So long!</q>)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce the great individual, fluid as Nature, chaste, affectionate, compassionate, fully arm’d.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I announce a life that shall be copious, vehement, spiritual, bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce an end that shall lightly and joyfully meet its translation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I announce myriads of youths, beautiful, gigantic, sweet-blooded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I announce a race of splendid and savage old men.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O thicker and faster⁠—(<q>So long!</q>)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O crowding too close upon me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I foresee too much, it means more than I thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It appears to me I am dying.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hasten throat and sound your last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Salute me⁠—salute the days once more. Peal the old cry once more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Screaming electric, the atmosphere using,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At random glancing, each as I notice absorbing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swiftly on, but a little while alighting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curious envelop’d messages delivering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sparkles hot, seed ethereal down in the dirt dropping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself unknowing, my commission obeying, to question it never daring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ages and ages yet the growth of the seed leaving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To troops out of the war arising, they the tasks I have set promulging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To women certain whispers of myself bequeathing, their affection me more clearly explaining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To young men my problems offering⁠—no dallier I⁠—I the muscle of their brains trying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I pass, a little time vocal, visible, contrary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Afterward a melodious echo, passionately bent for, (death making me really undying,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The best of me then when no longer visible, for toward that I have been incessantly preparing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What is there more, that I lag and pause and crouch extended with unshut mouth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is there a single final farewell?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My songs cease, I abandon them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From behind the screen where I hid I advance personally solely to you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Camerado, this is no book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who touches this touches a man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Is it night? are we here together alone?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is I you hold and who holds you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I spring from the pages into your arms⁠—decease calls me forth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O how your fingers drowse me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your breath falls around me like dew, your pulse lulls the tympans of my ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel immerged from head to foot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delicious, enough.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enough O deed impromptu and secret,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough O gliding present⁠—enough O summ’d-up past.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dear friend whoever you are take this kiss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I give it especially to you, do not forget me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel like one who has done work for the day to retire awhile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I receive now again of my many translations, from my avataras ascending, while others doubtless await me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An unknown sphere more real than I dream’d, more direct, darts awakening rays about me, <q>So long!</q></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember my words, I may again return,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love you, I depart from materials,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am as one disembodied, triumphant, dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
