<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Song of the Exposition</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="song-of-the-exposition" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song of the Exposition</h2>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-1" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
				<p>
					<span>(Ah little recks the laborer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How near his work is holding him to God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loving Laborer through space and time.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>After all not to create only, or found only,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to bring perhaps from afar what is already founded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give it our own identity, average, limitless, free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fill the gross the torpid bulk with vital religious fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to repel or destroy so much as accept, fuse, rehabilitate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To obey as well as command, to follow more than to lead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These also are the lessons of our New World;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While how little the New after all, how much the Old, Old World!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long and long has the grass been growing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long and long has the rain been falling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long has the globe been rolling round.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-2" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come Muse migrate from Greece and Ionia,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cross out please those immensely overpaid accounts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That matter of Troy and Achilles’ wrath, and Aeneas’, Odysseus’ wanderings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Placard “Removed” and “To Let” on the rocks of your snowy Parnassus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Repeat at Jerusalem, place the notice high on Jaffa’s gate and on Mount Moriah,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same on the walls of your German, French and Spanish castles, and Italian collections,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For know a better, fresher, busier sphere, a wide, untried domain awaits, demands you.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-3" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Responsive to our summons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or rather to her long-nurs’d inclination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Join’d with an irresistible, natural gravitation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She comes! I hear the rustling of her gown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I scent the odor of her breath’s delicious fragrance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mark her step divine, her curious eyes a-turning, rolling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon this very scene.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dame of dames! can I believe then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those ancient temples, sculptures classic, could none of them retain her?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor shades of Virgil and Dante, nor myriad memories, poems, old associations, magnetize and hold on to her?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that she’s left them all⁠—and here?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, if you will allow me to say so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, my friends, if you do not, can plainly see her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same undying soul of earth’s, activity’s, beauty’s, heroism’s expression,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out from her evolutions hither come, ended the strata of her former themes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hidden and cover’d by to-day’s, foundation of to-day’s,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ended, deceas’d through time, her voice by Castaly’s fountain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent the broken-lipp’d Sphynx in Egypt, silent all those century-baffling tombs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ended for aye the epics of Asia’s, Europe’s helmeted warriors, ended the primitive call of the muses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calliope’s call forever closed, Clio, Melpomene, Thalia dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ended the stately rhythmus of Una and Oriana, ended the quest of the Holy Graal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jerusalem a handful of ashes blown by the wind, extinct,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Crusaders’ streams of shadowy midnight troops sped with the sunrise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amadis, Tancred, utterly gone, Charlemagne, Roland, Oliver gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Palmerin, ogre, departed, vanish’d the turrets that Usk from its waters reflected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arthur vanish’d with all his knights, Merlin and Lancelot and Galahad, all gone, dissolv’d utterly like an exhalation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pass’d! pass’d! for us, forever pass’d, that once so mighty world, now void, inanimate, phantom world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Embroider’d, dazzling, foreign world, with all its gorgeous legends, myths,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its kings and castles proud, its priests and warlike lords and courtly dames,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pass’d to its charnel vault, coffin’d with crown and armor on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blazon’d with Shakspere’s purple page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dirged by Tennyson’s sweet sad rhyme.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I say I see, my friends, if you do not, the illustrious emigré, (having it is true in her day, although the same, changed, journey’d considerable,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Making directly for this rendezvous, vigorously clearing a path for herself, striding through the confusion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By thud of machinery and shrill steam-whistle undismay’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bluff’d not a bit by drain-pipe, gasometers, artificial fertilizers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smiling and pleas’d with palpable intent to stay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s here, install’d amid the kitchen ware!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-4" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But hold⁠—don’t I forget my manners?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To introduce the stranger, (what else indeed do I live to chant for?) to thee Columbia;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In liberty’s name welcome immortal! clasp hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever henceforth sisters dear be both.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fear not O Muse! truly new ways and days receive, surround you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I candidly confess a queer, queer race, of novel fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet the same old human race, the same within, without,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faces and hearts the same, feelings the same, yearnings the same,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same old love, beauty and use the same.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-5" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We do not blame thee elder World, nor really separate ourselves from thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Would the son separate himself from the father?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looking back on thee, seeing thee to thy duties, grandeurs, through past ages bending, building,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We build to ours to-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mightier than Egypt’s tombs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fairer than Grecia’s, Roma’s temples,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prouder than Milan’s statued, spired cathedral,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More picturesque than Rhenish castle-keeps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We plan even now to raise, beyond them all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy great cathedral sacred industry, no tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A keep for life for practical invention.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As in a waking vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E’en while I chant I see it rise, I scan and prophesy outside and in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its manifold ensemble.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Around a palace, loftier, fairer, ampler than any yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Earth’s modern wonder, history’s seven outstripping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High rising tier on tier with glass and iron façades,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gladdening the sun and sky, enhued in cheerfulest hues,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bronze, lilac, robin’s-egg, marine and crimson,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over whose golden roof shall flaunt, beneath thy banner Freedom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The banners of the States and flags of every land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A brood of lofty, fair, but lesser palaces shall cluster.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Somewhere within their walls shall all that forwards perfect human life be started,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tried, taught, advanced, visibly exhibited.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not only all the world of works, trade, products,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all the workmen of the world here to be represented.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here shall you trace in flowing operation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every state of practical, busy movement, the rills of civilization,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Materials here under your eye shall change their shape as if by magic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cotton shall be pick’d almost in the very field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall be dried, clean’d, ginn’d, baled, spun into thread and cloth before you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall see hands at work at all the old processes and all the new ones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall see the various grains and how flour is made and then bread baked by the bakers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall see the crude ores of California and Nevada passing on and on till they become bullion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall watch how the printer sets type, and learn what a composing-stick is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall mark in amazement the Hoe press whirling its cylinders, shedding the printed leaves steady and fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The photograph, model, watch, pin, nail, shall be created before you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In large calm halls, a stately museum shall teach you the infinite lessons of minerals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In another, woods, plants, vegetation shall be illustrated⁠—in another animals, animal life and development.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One stately house shall be the music house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others for other arts⁠—learning, the sciences, shall all be here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None shall be slighted, none but shall here be honor’d, help’d, exampled.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-6" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
				<p>
					<span>(This, this and these, America, shall be <em>your</em> pyramids and obelisks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your Alexandrian Pharos, gardens of Babylon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your temple at Olympia.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The male and female many laboring not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall ever here confront the laboring many,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With precious benefits to both, glory to all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thee America, and thee eternal Muse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And here shall ye inhabit powerful Matrons!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your vast state vaster than all the old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Echoed through long, long centuries to come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sound of different, prouder songs, with stronger themes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Practical, peaceful life, the people’s life, the People themselves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifted, illumin’d, bathed in peace⁠—elate, secure in peace.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-7" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">7</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Away with themes of war! away with war itself!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hence from my shuddering sight to never more return that show of blacken’d, mutilated corpses!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hell unpent and raid of blood, fit for wild tigers or for lop-tongued wolves, not reasoning men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in its stead speed industry’s campaigns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With thy undaunted armies, engineering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy pennants labor, loosen’d to the breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy bugles sounding loud and clear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Away with old romance!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away with novels, plots and plays of foreign courts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away with love-verses sugar’d in rhyme, the intrigues, amours of idlers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fitted for only banquets of the night where dancers to late music slide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unhealthy pleasures, extravagant dissipations of the few,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With perfumes, heat and wine, beneath the dazzling chandeliers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To you ye reverent sane sisters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I raise a voice for far superber themes for poets and for art,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To exalt the present and the real,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To teach the average man the glory of his daily walk and trade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sing in songs how exercise and chemical life are never to be baffled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To manual work for each and all, to plough, hoe, dig,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To plant and tend the tree, the berry, vegetables, flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For every man to see to it that he really do something, for every woman too;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To use the hammer and the saw, (rip, or cross-cut,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cultivate a turn for carpentering, plastering, painting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To work as tailor, tailoress, nurse, hostler, porter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To invent a little, something ingenious, to aid the washing, cooking, cleaning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hold it no disgrace to take a hand at them themselves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I say I bring thee Muse to-day and here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All occupations, duties broad and close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toil, healthy toil and sweat, endless, without cessation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old, old practical burdens, interests, joys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The family, parentage, childhood, husband and wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The house-comforts, the house itself and all its belongings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Food and its preservation, chemistry applied to it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whatever forms the average, strong, complete, sweet-blooded man or woman, the perfect longeve personality,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And helps its present life to health and happiness, and shapes its soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the eternal real life to come.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With latest connections, works, the inter-transportation of the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steam-power, the great express lines, gas, petroleum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These triumphs of our time, the Atlantic’s delicate cable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Pacific railroad, the Suez canal, the Mont Cenis and Gothard and Hoosac tunnels, the Brooklyn bridge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This earth all spann’d with iron rails, with lines of steamships threading every sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our own rondure, the current globe I bring.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-8" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">8</h3>
				<p>
					<span>And thou America,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy offspring towering e’er so high, yet higher Thee above all towering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Victory on thy left, and at thy right hand Law;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou Union holding all, fusing, absorbing, tolerating all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee, ever thee, I sing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou, also thou, a World,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all thy wide geographies, manifold, different, distant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rounded by thee in one⁠—one common orbic language,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One common indivisible destiny for All.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And by the spells which ye vouchsafe to those your ministers in earnest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I here personify and call my themes, to make them pass before ye.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold, America! (and thou, ineffable guest and sister!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thee come trooping up thy waters and thy lands;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold! thy fields and farms, thy far-off woods and mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in procession coming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold, the sea itself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on its limitless, heaving breast, the ships;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, where their white sails, bellying in the wind, speckle the green and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, the steamers coming and going, steaming in or out of port,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, dusky and undulating, the long pennants of smoke.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold, in Oregon, far in the north and west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or in Maine, far in the north and east, thy cheerful axemen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wielding all day their axes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold, on the lakes, thy pilots at their wheels, thy oarsmen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How the ash writhes under those muscular arms!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There by the furnace, and there by the anvil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold thy sturdy blacksmiths swinging their sledges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Overhand so steady, overhand they turn and fall with joyous clank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a tumult of laughter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mark the spirit of invention everywhere, thy rapid patents,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy continual workshops, foundries, risen or rising,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, from their chimneys how the tall flame-fires stream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mark, thy interminable farms, North, South,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy wealthy daughter-states, Eastern and Western,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The varied products of Ohio, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Georgia, Texas, and the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy limitless crops, grass, wheat, sugar, oil, corn, rice, hemp, hops,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy barns all fill’d, the endless freight-train and the bulging storehouse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grapes that ripen on thy vines, the apples in thy orchards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy incalculable lumber, beef, pork, potatoes, thy coal, thy gold and silver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inexhaustible iron in thy mines.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All thine, O sacred Union!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ships, farms, shops, barns, factories, mines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>City and State, North, South, item and aggregate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We dedicate, dread Mother, all to thee!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Protectress absolute, thou! bulwark of all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For well we know that while thou givest each and all, (generous as God,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without thee neither all nor each, nor land, home,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ship, nor mine, nor any here this day secure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor aught, nor any day secure.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-exposition-9" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">9</h3>
				<p>
					<span>And thou, the Emblem waving over all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delicate beauty, a word to thee, (it may be salutary,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember thou hast not always been as here to-day so comfortably ensovereign’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In other scenes than these have I observ’d thee flag,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not quite so trim and whole and freshly blooming in folds of stainless silk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I have seen thee bunting, to tatters torn upon thy splinter’d staff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or clutch’d to some young color-bearer’s breast with desperate hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Savagely struggled for, for life or death, fought over long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Mid cannons’ thunder-crash and many a curse and groan and yell, and rifle-volleys cracking sharp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And moving masses as wild demons surging, and lives as nothing risk’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thy mere remnant grimed with dirt and smoke and sopp’d in blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sake of that, my beauty, and that thou might’st dally as now secure up there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a good man have I seen go under.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now here and these and hence in peace, all thine, O Flag!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here and hence for thee, O universal Muse! and thou for them!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here and hence O Union, all the work and workmen thine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None separate from thee⁠—henceforth One only, we and thou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For the blood of the children, what is it, only the blood maternal?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lives and works, what are they all at last, except the roads to faith and death?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While we rehearse our measureless wealth, it is for thee, dear Mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We own it all and several to-day indissoluble in thee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think not our chant, our show, merely for products gross or lucre⁠—it is for thee, the soul in thee, electric, spiritual!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our farms, inventions, crops, we own in thee! cities and States in thee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our freedom all in thee! our very lives in thee!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
