<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Song of Myself</title>
<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="song-of-myself" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title">Song of Myself</h2>
<article id="song-of-myself" epub:type="z3998:poem">
	<section id="song-of-myself-1" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I celebrate myself, and sing myself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And what I assume you shall assume,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I loafe and invite my soul,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I lean and loafe at my ease observing a spear of summer grass.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My tongue, every atom of my blood, form’d from this soil, this air,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Born here of parents born here from parents the same, and their parents the same,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I, now thirty-seven years old in perfect health begin,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Hoping to cease not till death.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Creeds and schools in abeyance,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Retiring back a while sufficed at what they are, but never forgotten,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I harbor for good or bad, I permit to speak at every hazard,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nature without check with original energy.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-2" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Houses and rooms are full of perfumes, the shelves are crowded with perfumes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I breathe the fragrance myself and know it and like it,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The distillation would intoxicate me also, but I shall not let it.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The atmosphere is not a perfume, it has no taste of the distillation, it is odorless,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It is for my mouth forever, I am in love with it,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I will go to the bank by the wood and become undisguised and naked,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am mad for it to be in contact with me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The smoke of my own breath,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Echoes, ripples, buzz’d whispers, love-root, silk-thread, crotch and vine,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My respiration and inspiration, the beating of my heart, the passing of blood and air through my lungs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The sniff of green leaves and dry leaves, and of the shore and dark-color’d sea-rocks, and of hay in the barn,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The sound of the belch’d words of my voice loos’d to the eddies of the wind,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A few light kisses, a few embraces, a reaching around of arms,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The play of shine and shade on the trees as the supple boughs wag,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The delight alone or in the rush of the streets, or along the fields and hill-sides,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The feeling of health, the full-noon trill, the song of me rising from bed and meeting the sun.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Have you reckon’d a thousand acres much? have you reckon’d the earth much?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Have you practis’d so long to learn to read?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Have you felt so proud to get at the meaning of poems?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Stop this day and night with me and you shall possess the origin of all poems,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You shall possess the good of the earth and sun, (there are millions of suns left,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You shall no longer take things at second or third hand, nor look through the eyes of the dead, nor feed on the spectres in books,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You shall not look through my eyes either, nor take things from me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You shall listen to all sides and filter them from your self.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-3" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I have heard what the talkers were talking, the talk of the beginning and the end,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But I do not talk of the beginning or the end.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>There was never any more inception than there is now,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor any more youth or age than there is now,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And will never be any more perfection than there is now,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor any more heaven or hell than there is now.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Urge and urge and urge,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Always the procreant urge of the world.</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Out of the dimness opposite equals advance, always substance and increase, always sex,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Always a knit of identity, always distinction, always a breed of life.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>To elaborate is no avail, learn’d and unlearn’d feel that it is so.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Sure as the most certain sure, plumb in the uprights, well entretied, braced in the beams,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Stout as a horse, affectionate, haughty, electrical,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I and this mystery here we stand.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Clear and sweet is my soul, and clear and sweet is all that is not my soul.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Lack one lacks both, and the unseen is proved by the seen,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Till that becomes unseen and receives proof in its turn.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Showing the best and dividing it from the worst age vexes age,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Knowing the perfect fitness and equanimity of things, while they discuss I am silent, and go bathe and admire myself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Welcome is every organ and attribute of me, and of any man hearty and clean,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not an inch nor a particle of an inch is vile, and none shall be less familiar than the rest.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am satisfied—I see, dance, laugh, sing;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>As the hugging and loving bed-fellow sleeps at my side through the night, and withdraws at the peep of the day with stealthy tread,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Leaving me baskets cover’d with white towels swelling the house with their plenty,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Shall I postpone my acceptation and realization and scream at my eyes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That they turn from gazing after and down the road,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And forthwith cipher and show me to a cent,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Exactly the value of one and exactly the value of two, and which is ahead?</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-4" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Trippers and askers surround me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>People I meet, the effect upon me of my early life or the ward and city I live in, or the nation,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The latest dates, discoveries, inventions, societies, authors old and new,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My dinner, dress, associates, looks, compliments, dues,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The real or fancied indifference of some man or woman I love,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The sickness of one of my folks or of myself, or ill-doing or loss or lack of money, or depressions or exaltations,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Battles, the horrors of fratricidal war, the fever of doubtful news, the fitful events;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>These come to me days and nights and go from me again,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But they are not the Me myself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Apart from the pulling and hauling stands what I am,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Stands amused, complacent, compassionating, idle, unitary,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Looks down, is erect, or bends an arm on an impalpable certain rest,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Looking with side-curved head curious what will come next,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Both in and out of the game and watching and wondering at it.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Backward I see in my own days where I sweated through fog with linguists and contenders,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I have no mockings or arguments, I witness and wait.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-5" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I believe in you my soul, the other I am must not abase itself to you,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And you must not be abased to the other.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Loafe with me on the grass, loose the stop from your throat,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not words, not music or rhyme I want, not custom or lecture, not even the best,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Only the lull I like, the hum of your valvèd voice.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I mind how once we lay such a transparent summer morning,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How you settled your head athwart my hips and gently turn’d over upon me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And parted the shirt from my bosom-bone, and plunged your tongue to my bare-stript heart,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And reach’d till you felt my beard, and reach’d till you held my feet.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Swiftly arose and spread around me the peace and knowledge that pass all the argument of the earth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I know that the hand of God is the promise of my own,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I know that the spirit of God is the brother of my own,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And that all the men ever born are also my brothers, and the women my sisters and lovers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And that a kelson of the creation is love,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And limitless are leaves stiff or drooping in the fields,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And brown ants in the little wells beneath them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And mossy scabs of the worm fence, heap’d stones, elder, mullein and poke-weed.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-6" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
		<p>
			<span>A child said <q>What is the grass?</q> fetching it to me with full hands;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How could I answer the child? I do not know what it is any more than he.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I guess it must be the flag of my disposition, out of hopeful green stuff woven.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Or I guess it is the handkerchief of the Lord,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A scented gift and remembrancer designedly dropt,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Bearing the owner’s name someway in the corners, that we may see and remark, and say <q>Whose?</q></span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Or I guess the grass is itself a child, the produced babe of the vegetation.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Or I guess it is a uniform hieroglyphic,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And it means, Sprouting alike in broad zones and narrow zones,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Growing among black folks as among white,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Kanuck, Tuckahoe, Congressman, Cuff, I give them the same, I receive them the same.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>And now it seems to me the beautiful uncut hair of graves.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Tenderly will I use you curling grass,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It may be you transpire from the breasts of young men,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It may be if I had known them I would have loved them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It may be you are from old people, or from offspring taken soon out of their mothers’ laps,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And here you are the mothers’ laps.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>This grass is very dark to be from the white heads of old mothers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Darker than the colorless beards of old men,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Dark to come from under the faint red roofs of mouths.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>O I perceive after all so many uttering tongues,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I perceive they do not come from the roofs of mouths for nothing.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I wish I could translate the hints about the dead young men and women,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the hints about old men and mothers, and the offspring taken soon out of their laps.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>What do you think has become of the young and old men?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And what do you think has become of the women and children?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>They are alive and well somewhere,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The smallest sprout shows there is really no death,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And if ever there was it led forward life, and does not wait at the end to arrest it,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And ceas’d the moment life appear’d.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>All goes onward and outward, nothing collapses,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And to die is different from what any one supposed, and luckier.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-7" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">7</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Has any one supposed it lucky to be born?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I hasten to inform him or her it is just as lucky to die, and I know it.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I pass death with the dying and birth with the new-wash’d babe, and am not contain’d between my hat and boots,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And peruse manifold objects, no two alike and every one good,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The earth good and the stars good, and their adjuncts all good.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am not an earth nor an adjunct of an earth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am the mate and companion of people, all just as immortal and fathomless as myself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(They do not know how immortal, but I know.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Every kind for itself and its own, for me mine male and female,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For me those that have been boys and that love women,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For me the man that is proud and feels how it stings to be slighted,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For me the sweet-heart and the old maid, for me mothers and the mothers of mothers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For me lips that have smiled, eyes that have shed tears,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For me children and the begetters of children.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Undrape! you are not guilty to me, nor stale nor discarded,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I see through the broadcloth and gingham whether or no,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And am around, tenacious, acquisitive, tireless, and cannot be shaken away.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-8" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">8</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The little one sleeps in its cradle,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I lift the gauze and look a long time, and silently brush away flies with my hand.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The youngster and the red-faced girl turn aside up the bushy hill,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I peeringly view them from the top.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The suicide sprawls on the bloody floor of the bedroom,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I witness the corpse with its dabbled hair, I note where the pistol has fallen.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The blab of the pave, tires of carts, sluff of boot-soles, talk of the promenaders,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The heavy omnibus, the driver with his interrogating thumb, the clank of the shod horses on the granite floor,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The snow-sleighs, clinking, shouted jokes, pelts of snow-balls,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The hurrahs for popular favorites, the fury of rous’d mobs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The flap of the curtain’d litter, a sick man inside borne to the hospital,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The meeting of enemies, the sudden oath, the blows and fall,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The excited crowd, the policeman with his star quickly working his passage to the centre of the crowd,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The impassive stones that receive and return so many echoes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What groans of over-fed or half-starv’d who fall sunstruck or in fits,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What exclamations of women taken suddenly who hurry home and give birth to babes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What living and buried speech is always vibrating here, what howls restrain’d by decorum,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Arrests of criminals, slights, adulterous offers made, acceptances, rejections with convex lips,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I mind them or the show or resonance of them—I come and I depart.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-9" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">9</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The big doors of the country barn stand open and ready,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The dried grass of the harvest-time loads the slow-drawn wagon,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The clear light plays on the brown gray and green intertinged,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The armfuls are pack’d to the sagging mow.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am there, I help, I came stretch’d atop of the load,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I felt its soft jolts, one leg reclined on the other,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I jump from the cross-beams and seize the clover and timothy,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And roll head over heels and tangle my hair full of wisps.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-10" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">10</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Alone far in the wilds and mountains I hunt,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Wandering amazed at my own lightness and glee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In the late afternoon choosing a safe spot to pass the night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Kindling a fire and broiling the fresh-kill’d game,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Falling asleep on the gather’d leaves with my dog and gun by my side.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The Yankee clipper is under her sky-sails, she cuts the sparkle and scud,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My eyes settle the land, I bend at her prow or shout joyously from the deck.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The boatmen and clam-diggers arose early and stopt for me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I tuck’d my trowser-ends in my boots and went and had a good time;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You should have been with us that day round the chowder-kettle.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I saw the marriage of the trapper in the open air in the far west, the bride was a red girl,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Her father and his friends sat near cross-legged and dumbly smoking, they had moccasins to their feet and large thick blankets hanging from their shoulders,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On a bank lounged the trapper, he was drest mostly in skins, his luxuriant beard and curls protected his neck, he held his bride by the hand,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>She had long eyelashes, her head was bare, her coarse straight locks descended upon her voluptuous limbs and reach’d to her feet.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The runaway slave came to my house and stopt outside,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I heard his motions crackling the twigs of the woodpile,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Through the swung half-door of the kitchen I saw him limpsy and weak,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And went where he sat on a log and led him in and assured him,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And brought water and fill’d a tub for his sweated body and bruis’d feet,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And gave him a room that enter’d from my own, and gave him some coarse clean clothes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And remember perfectly well his revolving eyes and his awkwardness,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And remember putting plasters on the galls of his neck and ankles;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>He staid with me a week before he was recuperated and pass’d north,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I had him sit next me at table, my fire-lock lean’d in the corner.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-11" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">11</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Twenty-eight young men bathe by the shore,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Twenty-eight young men and all so friendly;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Twenty-eight years of womanly life and all so lonesome.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>She owns the fine house by the rise of the bank,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>She hides handsome and richly drest aft the blinds of the window.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Which of the young men does she like the best?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ah the homeliest of them is beautiful to her.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Where are you off to, lady? for I see you,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You splash in the water there, yet stay stock still in your room.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Dancing and laughing along the beach came the twenty-ninth bather,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The rest did not see her, but she saw them and loved them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The beards of the young men glisten’d with wet, it ran from their long hair,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Little streams pass’d all over their bodies.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>An unseen hand also pass’d over their bodies,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It descended tremblingly from their temples and ribs.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The young men float on their backs, their white bellies bulge to the sun, they do not ask who seizes fast to them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They do not know who puffs and declines with pendant and bending arch,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They do not think whom they souse with spray.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-12" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">12</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The butcher-boy puts off his killing-clothes, or sharpens his knife at the stall in the market,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I loiter enjoying his repartee and his shuffle and break-down.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Blacksmiths with grimed and hairy chests environ the anvil,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Each has his main-sledge, they are all out, there is a great heat in the fire.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>From the cinder-strew’d threshold I follow their movements,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The lithe sheer of their waists plays even with their massive arms,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Overhand the hammers swing, overhand so slow, overhand so sure,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They do not hasten, each man hits in his place.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-13" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">13</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The negro holds firmly the reins of his four horses, the block swags underneath on its tied-over chain,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The negro that drives the long dray of the stone-yard, steady and tall he stands pois’d on one leg on the string-piece,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>His blue shirt exposes his ample neck and breast and loosens over his hip-band,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>His glance is calm and commanding, he tosses the slouch of his hat away from his forehead,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The sun falls on his crispy hair and mustache, falls on the black of his polish’d and perfect limbs.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I behold the picturesque giant and love him, and I do not stop there,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I go with the team also.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>In me the caresser of life wherever moving, backward as well as forward sluing,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To niches aside and junior bending, not a person or object missing,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Absorbing all to myself and for this song.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Oxen that rattle the yoke and chain or halt in the leafy shade, what is that you express in your eyes?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It seems to me more than all the print I have read in my life.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My tread scares the wood-drake and wood-duck on my distant and day-long ramble,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They rise together, they slowly circle around.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I believe in those wing’d purposes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And acknowledge red, yellow, white, playing within me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And consider green and violet and the tufted crown intentional,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And do not call the tortoise unworthy because she is not something else,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the jay in the woods never studied the gamut, yet trills pretty well to me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the look of the bay mare shames silliness out of me.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-14" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">14</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The wild gander leads his flock through the cool night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span><q>Ya-honk</q> he says, and sounds it down to me like an invitation,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The pert may suppose it meaningless, but I listening close,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Find its purpose and place up there toward the wintry sky.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The sharp-hoof’d moose of the north, the cat on the house-sill, the chickadee, the prairie-dog,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The litter of the grunting sow as they tug at her teats,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The brood of the turkey-hen and she with her half-spread wings,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I see in them and myself the same old law.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The press of my foot to the earth springs a hundred affections,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They scorn the best I can do to relate them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am enamour’d of growing out-doors,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Of men that live among cattle or taste of the ocean or woods,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Of the builders and steerers of ships and the wielders of axes and mauls, and the drivers of horses,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I can eat and sleep with them week in and week out.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>What is commonest, cheapest, nearest, easiest, is Me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Me going in for my chances, spending for vast returns,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Adorning myself to bestow myself on the first that will take me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not asking the sky to come down to my good will,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Scattering it freely forever.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-15" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">15</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The pure contralto sings in the organ loft,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The carpenter dresses his plank, the tongue of his foreplane whistles its wild ascending lisp,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The married and unmarried children ride home to their Thanksgiving dinner,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The pilot seizes the king-pin, he heaves down with a strong arm,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The mate stands braced in the whale-boat, lance and harpoon are ready,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The duck-shooter walks by silent and cautious stretches,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The deacons are ordain’d with cross’d hands at the altar,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The spinning-girl retreats and advances to the hum of the big wheel,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The farmer stops by the bars as he walks on a First-day loafe and looks at the oats and rye,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The lunatic is carried at last to the asylum a confirm’d case,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(He will never sleep any more as he did in the cot in his mother’s bed-room;)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The jour printer with gray head and gaunt jaws works at his case,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>He turns his quid of tobacco while his eyes blurr with the manuscript;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The malform’d limbs are tied to the surgeon’s table,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What is removed drops horribly in a pail;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The quadroon girl is sold at the auction-stand, the drunkard nods by the bar-room stove,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The machinist rolls up his sleeves, the policeman travels his beat, the gate-keeper marks who pass,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The young fellow drives the express-wagon, (I love him, though I do not know him;)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The half-breed straps on his light boots to compete in the race,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The western turkey-shooting draws old and young, some lean on their rifles, some sit on logs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Out from the crowd steps the marksman, takes his position, levels his piece;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The groups of newly-come immigrants cover the wharf or levee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>As the woolly-pates hoe in the sugar-field, the overseer views them from his saddle,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The bugle calls in the ball-room, the gentlemen run for their partners, the dancers bow to each other,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The youth lies awake in the cedar-roof’d garret and harks to the musical rain,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The Wolverine sets traps on the creek that helps fill the Huron,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The squaw wrapt in her yellow-hemm’d cloth is offering moccasins and bead-bags for sale,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The connoisseur peers along the exhibition-gallery with half-shut eyes bent sideways,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>As the deck-hands make fast the steamboat the plank is thrown for the shore-going passengers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The young sister holds out the skein while the elder sister winds it off in a ball, and stops now and then for the knots,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The one-year wife is recovering and happy having a week ago borne her first child,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The clean-hair’d Yankee girl works with her sewing-machine or in the factory or mill,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The paving-man leans on his two-handed rammer, the reporter’s lead flies swiftly over the note-book, the sign-painter is lettering with blue and gold,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The canal boy trots on the tow-path, the book-keeper counts at his desk, the shoemaker waxes his thread,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The conductor beats time for the band and all the performers follow him,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The child is baptized, the convert is making his first professions,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The regatta is spread on the bay, the race is begun, (how the white sails sparkle!)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The drover watching his drove sings out to them that would stray,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The pedler sweats with his pack on his back, (the purchaser higgling about the odd cent;)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The bride unrumples her white dress, the minute-hand of the clock moves slowly,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The opium-eater reclines with rigid head and just-open’d lips,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The prostitute draggles her shawl, her bonnet bobs on her tipsy and pimpled neck,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The crowd laugh at her blackguard oaths, the men jeer and wink to each other,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(Miserable! I do not laugh at your oaths nor jeer you;)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The President holding a cabinet council is surrounded by the great Secretaries,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On the piazza walk three matrons stately and friendly with twined arms,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The crew of the fish-smack pack repeated layers of halibut in the hold,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The Missourian crosses the plains toting his wares and his cattle,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>As the fare-collector goes through the train he gives notice by the jingling of loose change,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The floor-men are laying the floor, the tinners are tinning the roof, the masons are calling for mortar,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In single file each shouldering his hod pass onward the laborers;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Seasons pursuing each other the indescribable crowd is gather’d, it is the fourth of Seventh-month, (what salutes of cannon and small arms!)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Seasons pursuing each other the plougher ploughs, the mower mows, and the winter-grain falls in the ground;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Off on the lakes the pike-fisher watches and waits by the hole in the frozen surface,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The stumps stand thick round the clearing, the squatter strikes deep with his axe,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Flatboatmen make fast towards dusk near the cotton-wood or pecan-trees,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Coon-seekers go through the regions of the Red river or through those drain’d by the Tennessee, or through those of the Arkansas,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Torches shine in the dark that hangs on the Chattahooche or Altamahaw,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Patriarchs sit at supper with sons and grandsons and great-grandsons around them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In walls of adobie, in canvas tents, rest hunters and trappers after their day’s sport,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The city sleeps and the country sleeps,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The living sleep for their time, the dead sleep for their time,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The old husband sleeps by his wife and the young husband sleeps by his wife;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And these tend inward to me, and I tend outward to them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And such as it is to be of these more or less I am,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And of these one and all I weave the song of myself.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-16" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">16</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I am of old and young, of the foolish as much as the wise,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Regardless of others, ever regardful of others,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Maternal as well as paternal, a child as well as a man,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Stuff’d with the stuff that is coarse and stuff’d with the stuff that is fine,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>One of the Nation of many nations, the smallest the same and the largest the same,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A Southerner soon as a Northerner, a planter nonchalant and hospitable down by the Oconee I live,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A Yankee bound my own way ready for trade, my joints the limberest joints on earth and the sternest joints on earth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A Kentuckian walking the vale of the Elkhorn in my deer-skin leggings, a Louisianian or Georgian,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A boatman over lakes or bays or along coasts, a Hoosier, Badger, Buckeye;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At home on Kanadian snow-shoes or up in the bush, or with fishermen off Newfoundland,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At home in the fleet of ice-boats, sailing with the rest and tacking,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At home on the hills of Vermont or in the woods of Maine, or the Texan ranch,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Comrade of Californians, comrade of free North-Westerners, (loving their big proportions,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Comrade of raftsmen and coalmen, comrade of all who shake hands and welcome to drink and meat,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A learner with the simplest, a teacher of the thoughtfullest,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A novice beginning yet experient of myriads of seasons,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Of every hue and caste am I, of every rank and religion,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A farmer, mechanic, artist, gentleman, sailor, quaker,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Prisoner, fancy-man, rowdy, lawyer, physician, priest.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I resist any thing better than my own diversity,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Breathe the air but leave plenty after me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And am not stuck up, and am in my place.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>(The moth and the fish-eggs are in their place,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The bright suns I see and the dark suns I cannot see are in their place,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The palpable is in its place and the impalpable is in its place.)</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-17" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">17</h3>
		<p>
			<span>These are really the thoughts of all men in all ages and lands, they are not original with me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If they are not yours as much as mine they are nothing, or next to nothing,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If they are not the riddle and the untying of the riddle they are nothing,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If they are not just as close as they are distant they are nothing.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>This is the grass that grows wherever the land is and the water is,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This the common air that bathes the globe.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-18" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">18</h3>
		<p>
			<span>With music strong I come, with my cornets and my drums,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I play not marches for accepted victors only, I play marches for conquer’d and slain persons.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Have you heard that it was good to gain the day?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I also say it is good to fall, battles are lost in the same spirit in which they are won.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I beat and pound for the dead,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I blow through my embouchures my loudest and gayest for them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Vivas to those who have fail’d!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And to those whose war-vessels sank in the sea!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And to those themselves who sank in the sea!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And to all generals that lost engagements, and all overcome heroes!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the numberless unknown heroes equal to the greatest heroes known!</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-19" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">19</h3>
		<p>
			<span>This is the meal equally set, this the meat for natural hunger,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It is for the wicked just the same as the righteous, I make appointments with all,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I will not have a single person slighted or left away,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The kept-woman, sponger, thief, are hereby invited,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The heavy-lipp’d slave is invited, the venerealee is invited;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>There shall be no difference between them and the rest.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>This is the press of a bashful hand, this the float and odor of hair,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This the touch of my lips to yours, this the murmur of yearning,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This the far-off depth and height reflecting my own face,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This the thoughtful merge of myself, and the outlet again.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Do you guess I have some intricate purpose?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Well I have, for the Fourth-month showers have, and the mica on the side of a rock has.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Do you take it I would astonish?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Does the daylight astonish? does the early redstart twittering through the woods?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Do I astonish more than they?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>This hour I tell things in confidence,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I might not tell everybody, but I will tell you.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-20" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">20</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Who goes there? hankering, gross, mystical, nude;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How is it I extract strength from the beef I eat?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>What is a man anyhow? what am I? what are you?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>All I mark as my own you shall offset it with your own,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Else it were time lost listening to me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I do not snivel that snivel the world over,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That months are vacuums and the ground but wallow and filth.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Whimpering and truckling fold with powders for invalids, conformity goes to the fourth-remov’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I wear my hat as I please indoors or out.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Why should I pray? why should I venerate and be ceremonious?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Having pried through the strata, analyzed to a hair, counsel’d with doctors and calculated close,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I find no sweeter fat than sticks to my own bones.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>In all people I see myself, none more and not one a barley-corn less,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the good or bad I say of myself I say of them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I know I am solid and sound,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To me the converging objects of the universe perpetually flow,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>All are written to me, and I must get what the writing means.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I know I am deathless,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I know this orbit of mine cannot be swept by a carpenter’s compass,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I know I shall not pass like a child’s carlacue cut with a burnt stick at night.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I know I am august,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I do not trouble my spirit to vindicate itself or be understood,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I see that the elementary laws never apologize,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(I reckon I behave no prouder than the level I plant my house by, after all.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I exist as I am, that is enough,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If no other in the world be aware I sit content,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And if each and all be aware I sit content.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>One world is aware and by far the largest to me, and that is myself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And whether I come to my own to-day or in ten thousand or ten million years,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I can cheerfully take it now, or with equal cheerfulness I can wait.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My foothold is tenon’d and mortis’d in granite,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I laugh at what you call dissolution,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I know the amplitude of time.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-21" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">21</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I am the poet of the Body and I am the poet of the Soul,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The pleasures of heaven are with me and the pains of hell are with me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The first I graft and increase upon myself, the latter I translate into a new tongue.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am the poet of the woman the same as the man,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I say it is as great to be a woman as to be a man,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I say there is nothing greater than the mother of men.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I chant the chant of dilation or pride,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>We have had ducking and deprecating about enough,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I show that size is only development.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Have you outstript the rest? are you the President?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It is a trifle, they will more than arrive there every one, and still pass on.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am he that walks with the tender and growing night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I call to the earth and sea half-held by the night.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Press close bare-bosom’d night—press close magnetic nourishing night!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Night of south winds—night of the large few stars!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Still nodding night—mad naked summer night.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Smile O voluptuous cool-breath’d earth!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Earth of the slumbering and liquid trees!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Earth of departed sunset—earth of the mountains misty-topt!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Earth of the vitreous pour of the full moon just tinged with blue!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Earth of shine and dark mottling the tide of the river!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Earth of the limpid gray of clouds brighter and clearer for my sake!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Far-swooping elbow’d earth—rich apple-blossom’d earth!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Smile, for your lover comes.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Prodigal, you have given me love—therefore I to you give love!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>O unspeakable passionate love.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-22" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">22</h3>
		<p>
			<span>You sea! I resign myself to you also—I guess what you mean,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I behold from the beach your crooked inviting fingers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I believe you refuse to go back without feeling of me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>We must have a turn together, I undress, hurry me out of sight of the land,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Cushion me soft, rock me in billowy drowse,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Dash me with amorous wet, I can repay you.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Sea of stretch’d ground-swells,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Sea breathing broad and convulsive breaths,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Sea of the brine of life and of unshovell’d yet always-ready graves,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Howler and scooper of storms, capricious and dainty sea,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am integral with you, I too am of one phase and of all phases.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Partaker of influx and efflux I, extoller of hate and conciliation,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Extoller of amies and those that sleep in each others’ arms.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am he attesting sympathy,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(Shall I make my list of things in the house and skip the house that supports them?)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am not the poet of goodness only, I do not decline to be the poet of wickedness also.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>What blurt is this about virtue and about vice?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Evil propels me and reform of evil propels me, I stand indifferent,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My gait is no fault-finder’s or rejecter’s gait,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I moisten the roots of all that has grown.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Did you fear some scrofula out of the unflagging pregnancy?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Did you guess the celestial laws are yet to be work’d over and rectified?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I find one side a balance and the antipodal side a balance,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Soft doctrine as steady help as stable doctrine,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Thoughts and deeds of the present our rouse and early start.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>This minute that comes to me over the past decillions,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>There is no better than it and now.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>What behaved well in the past or behaves well to-day is not such a wonder,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The wonder is always and always how there can be a mean man or an infidel.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-23" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">23</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Endless unfolding of words of ages!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And mine a word of the modern, the word En-Masse.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>A word of the faith that never balks,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Here or henceforward it is all the same to me, I accept Time absolutely.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>It alone is without flaw, it alone rounds and completes all,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That mystic baffling wonder alone completes all.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I accept Reality and dare not question it,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Materialism first and last imbuing.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Hurrah for positive science! long live exact demonstration!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Fetch stonecrop mixt with cedar and branches of lilac,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This is the lexicographer, this the chemist, this made a grammar of the old cartouches,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>These mariners put the ship through dangerous unknown seas,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This is the geologist, this works with the scalpel, and this is a mathematician.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Gentlemen, to you the first honors always!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Your facts are useful, and yet they are not my dwelling,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I but enter by them to an area of my dwelling.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Less the reminders of properties told my words,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And more the reminders they of life untold, and of freedom and extrication,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And make short account of neuters and geldings, and favor men and women fully equipt,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And beat the gong of revolt, and stop with fugitives and them that plot and conspire.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-24" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">24</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Walt Whitman, a kosmos, of Manhattan the son,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Turbulent, fleshy, sensual, eating, drinking and breeding,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>No sentimentalist, no stander above men and women or apart from them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>No more modest than immodest.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Unscrew the locks from the doors!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Unscrew the doors themselves from their jambs!</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Whoever degrades another degrades me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And whatever is done or said returns at last to me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Through me the afflatus surging and surging, through me the current and index.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I speak the pass-word primeval, I give the sign of democracy,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>By God! I will accept nothing which all cannot have their counterpart of on the same terms.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Through me many long dumb voices,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Voices of the interminable generations of prisoners and slaves,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Voices of the diseas’d and despairing and of thieves and dwarfs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Voices of cycles of preparation and accretion,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And of the threads that connect the stars, and of wombs and of the father-stuff,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And of the rights of them the others are down upon,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Of the deform’d, trivial, flat, foolish, despised,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Fog in the air, beetles rolling balls of dung.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Through me forbidden voices,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Voices of sexes and lusts, voices veil’d and I remove the veil,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Voices indecent by me clarified and transfigur’d.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I do not press my fingers across my mouth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I keep as delicate around the bowels as around the head and heart,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Copulation is no more rank to me than death is.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I believe in the flesh and the appetites,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Seeing, hearing, feeling, are miracles, and each part and tag of me is a miracle.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Divine am I inside and out, and I make holy whatever I touch or am touch’d from,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The scent of these arm-pits aroma finer than prayer,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This head more than churches, bibles, and all the creeds.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>If I worship one thing more than another it shall be the spread of my own body, or any part of it,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Translucent mould of me it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Shaded ledges and rests it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Firm masculine colter it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Whatever goes to the tilth of me it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You my rich blood! your milky stream pale strippings of my life!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Breast that presses against other breasts it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My brain it shall be your occult convolutions!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Root of wash’d sweet-flag! timorous pond-snipe! nest of guarded duplicate eggs! it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Mix’d tussled hay of head, beard, brawn, it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Trickling sap of maple, fibre of manly wheat, it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Sun so generous it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Vapors lighting and shading my face it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You sweaty brooks and dews it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Winds whose soft-tickling genitals rub against me it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Broad muscular fields, branches of live oak, loving lounger in my winding paths, it shall be you!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Hands I have taken, face I have kiss’d, mortal I have ever touch’d, it shall be you.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I dote on myself, there is that lot of me and all so luscious,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Each moment and whatever happens thrills me with joy,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I cannot tell how my ankles bend, nor whence the cause of my faintest wish,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor the cause of the friendship I emit, nor the cause of the friendship I take again.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>That I walk up my stoop, I pause to consider if it really be,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A morning-glory at my window satisfies me more than the metaphysics of books.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>To behold the day-break!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The little light fades the immense and diaphanous shadows,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The air tastes good to my palate.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Hefts of the moving world at innocent gambols silently rising, freshly exuding,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Scooting obliquely high and low.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Something I cannot see puts upward libidinous prongs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Seas of bright juice suffuse heaven.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The earth by the sky staid with, the daily close of their junction,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The heav’d challenge from the east that moment over my head,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The mocking taunt, See then whether you shall be master!</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-25" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">25</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Dazzling and tremendous how quick the sun-rise would kill me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If I could not now and always send sun-rise out of me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>We also ascend dazzling and tremendous as the sun,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>We found our own O my soul in the calm and cool of the daybreak.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My voice goes after what my eyes cannot reach,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>With the twirl of my tongue I encompass worlds and volumes of worlds.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Speech is the twin of my vision, it is unequal to measure itself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It provokes me forever, it says sarcastically,</span>
			<br/>
			<span><q>Walt you contain enough, why don’t you let it out then?</q></span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Come now I will not be tantalized, you conceive too much of articulation,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Do you not know O speech how the buds beneath you are folded?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Waiting in gloom, protected by frost,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The dirt receding before my prophetical screams,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I underlying causes to balance them at last,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My knowledge my live parts, it keeping tally with the meaning of all things,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Happiness, (which whoever hears me let him or her set out in search of this day.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My final merit I refuse you, I refuse putting from me what I really am,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Encompass worlds, but never try to encompass me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I crowd your sleekest and best by simply looking toward you.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Writing and talk do not prove me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I carry the plenum of proof and every thing else in my face,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>With the hush of my lips I wholly confound the skeptic.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-26" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">26</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Now I will do nothing but listen,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To accrue what I hear into this song, to let sounds contribute toward it.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I hear bravuras of birds, bustle of growing wheat, gossip of flames, clack of sticks cooking my meals,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I hear the sound I love, the sound of the human voice,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I hear all sounds running together, combined, fused or following,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Sounds of the city and sounds out of the city, sounds of the day and night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Talkative young ones to those that like them, the loud laugh of work-people at their meals,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The angry base of disjointed friendship, the faint tones of the sick,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The judge with hands tight to the desk, his pallid lips pronouncing a death-sentence,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The heave’e’yo of stevedores unlading ships by the wharves, the refrain of the anchor-lifters,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The ring of alarm-bells, the cry of fire, the whirr of swift-streaking engines and hose-carts with premonitory tinkles and color’d lights,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The steam-whistle, the solid roll of the train of approaching cars,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The slow march play’d at the head of the association marching two and two,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(They go to guard some corpse, the flag-tops are draped with black muslin.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I hear the violoncello, (’tis the young man’s heart’s complaint,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I hear the key’d cornet, it glides quickly in through my ears,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It shakes mad-sweet pangs through my belly and breast.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I hear the chorus, it is a grand opera,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ah this indeed is music—this suits me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>A tenor large and fresh as the creation fills me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The orbic flex of his mouth is pouring and filling me full.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I hear the train’d soprano (what work with hers is this?)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The orchestra whirls me wider than Uranus flies,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It wrenches such ardors from me I did not know I possess’d them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It sails me, I dab with bare feet, they are lick’d by the indolent waves,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am cut by bitter and angry hail, I lose my breath,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Steep’d amid honey’d morphine, my windpipe throttled in fakes of death,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At length let up again to feel the puzzle of puzzles,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And that we call Being.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-27" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">27</h3>
		<p>
			<span>To be in any form, what is that?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(Round and round we go, all of us, and ever come back thither,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If nothing lay more develop’d the quahaug in its callous shell were enough.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Mine is no callous shell,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I have instant conductors all over me whether I pass or stop,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They seize every object and lead it harmlessly through me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I merely stir, press, feel with my fingers, and am happy,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To touch my person to some one else’s is about as much as I can stand.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-28" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">28</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Is this then a touch? quivering me to a new identity,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Flames and ether making a rush for my veins,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Treacherous tip of me reaching and crowding to help them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My flesh and blood playing out lightning to strike what is hardly different from myself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On all sides prurient provokers stiffening my limbs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Straining the udder of my heart for its withheld drip,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Behaving licentious toward me, taking no denial,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Depriving me of my best as for a purpose,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Unbuttoning my clothes, holding me by the bare waist,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Deluding my confusion with the calm of the sunlight and pasture-fields,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Immodestly sliding the fellow-senses away,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They bribed to swap off with touch and go and graze at the edges of me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>No consideration, no regard for my draining strength or my anger,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Fetching the rest of the herd around to enjoy them a while,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Then all uniting to stand on a headland and worry me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The sentries desert every other part of me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They have left me helpless to a red marauder,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They all come to the headland to witness and assist against me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am given up by traitors,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I talk wildly, I have lost my wits, I and nobody else am the greatest traitor,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I went myself first to the headland, my own hands carried me there.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>You villain touch! what are you doing? my breath is tight in its throat,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Unclench your floodgates, you are too much for me.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-29" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">29</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Blind loving wrestling touch, sheath’d hooded sharp-tooth’d touch!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Did it make you ache so, leaving me?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Parting track’d by arriving, perpetual payment of perpetual loan,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Rich showering rain, and recompense richer afterward.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Sprouts take and accumulate, stand by the curb prolific and vital,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Landscapes projected masculine, full-sized and golden.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-30" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">30</h3>
		<p>
			<span>All truths wait in all things,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They neither hasten their own delivery nor resist it,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They do not need the obstetric forceps of the surgeon,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The insignificant is as big to me as any,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(What is less or more than a touch?)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Logic and sermons never convince,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The damp of the night drives deeper into my soul.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>(Only what proves itself to every man and woman is so,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Only what nobody denies is so.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>A minute and a drop of me settle my brain,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I believe the soggy clods shall become lovers and lamps,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And a compend of compends is the meat of a man or woman,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And a summit and flower there is the feeling they have for each other,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And they are to branch boundlessly out of that lesson until it becomes omnific,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And until one and all shall delight us, and we them.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-31" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">31</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I believe a leaf of grass is no less than the journey-work of the stars,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the pismire is equally perfect, and a grain of sand, and the egg of the wren,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the tree-toad is a chef-d’oeuvre for the highest,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the running blackberry would adorn the parlors of heaven,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the narrowest hinge in my hand puts to scorn all machinery,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the cow crunching with depress’d head surpasses any statue,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And a mouse is miracle enough to stagger sextillions of infidels.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I find I incorporate gneiss, coal, long-threaded moss, fruits, grains, esculent roots,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And am stucco’d with quadrupeds and birds all over,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And have distanced what is behind me for good reasons,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But call any thing back again when I desire it.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>In vain the speeding or shyness,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain the plutonic rocks send their old heat against my approach,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain the mastodon retreats beneath its own powder’d bones,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain objects stand leagues off and assume manifold shapes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain the ocean settling in hollows and the great monsters lying low,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain the buzzard houses herself with the sky,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain the snake slides through the creepers and logs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain the elk takes to the inner passes of the woods,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vain the razor-bill’d auk sails far north to Labrador,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I follow quickly, I ascend to the nest in the fissure of the cliff.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-32" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">32</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I think I could turn and live with animals, they are so placid and self-contain’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I stand and look at them long and long.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>They do not sweat and whine about their condition,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They do not lie awake in the dark and weep for their sins,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They do not make me sick discussing their duty to God,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not one is dissatisfied, not one is demented with the mania of owning things,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not one kneels to another, nor to his kind that lived thousands of years ago,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not one is respectable or unhappy over the whole earth.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>So they show their relations to me and I accept them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They bring me tokens of myself, they evince them plainly in their possession.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I wonder where they get those tokens,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Did I pass that way huge times ago and negligently drop them?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Myself moving forward then and now and forever,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Gathering and showing more always and with velocity,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Infinite and omnigenous, and the like of these among them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not too exclusive toward the reachers of my remembrancers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Picking out here one that I love, and now go with him on brotherly terms.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>A gigantic beauty of a stallion, fresh and responsive to my caresses,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Head high in the forehead, wide between the ears,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Limbs glossy and supple, tail dusting the ground,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Eyes full of sparkling wickedness, ears finely cut, flexibly moving.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>His nostrils dilate as my heels embrace him,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>His well-built limbs tremble with pleasure as we race around and return.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I but use you a minute, then I resign you, stallion,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Why do I need your paces when I myself out-gallop them?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Even as I stand or sit passing faster than you.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-33" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">33</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Space and Time! now I see it is true, what I guess’d at,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What I guess’d when I loaf’d on the grass,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What I guess’d while I lay alone in my bed,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And again as I walk’d the beach under the paling stars of the morning.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My ties and ballasts leave me, my elbows rest in sea-gaps,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I skirt sierras, my palms cover continents,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am afoot with my vision.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>By the city’s quadrangular houses—in log huts, camping with lumbermen,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Along the ruts of the turnpike, along the dry gulch and rivulet bed,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Weeding my onion-patch or hoeing rows of carrots and parsnips, crossing savannas, trailing in forests,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Prospecting, gold-digging, girdling the trees of a new purchase,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Scorch’d ankle-deep by the hot sand, hauling my boat down the shallow river,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the panther walks to and fro on a limb overhead, where the buck turns furiously at the hunter,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the rattlesnake suns his flabby length on a rock, where the otter is feeding on fish,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the alligator in his tough pimples sleeps by the bayou,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the black bear is searching for roots or honey, where the beaver pats the mud with his paddle-shaped tail;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Over the growing sugar, over the yellow-flower’d cotton plant, over the rice in its low moist field,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Over the sharp-peak’d farm house, with its scallop’d scum and slender shoots from the gutters,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Over the western persimmon, over the long-leav’d corn, over the delicate blue-flower flax,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Over the white and brown buckwheat, a hummer and buzzer there with the rest,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Over the dusky green of the rye as it ripples and shades in the breeze;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Scaling mountains, pulling myself cautiously up, holding on by low scragged limbs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Walking the path worn in the grass and beat through the leaves of the brush,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the quail is whistling betwixt the woods and the wheat-lot,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the bat flies in the Seventh-month eve, where the great gold-bug drops through the dark,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the brook puts out of the roots of the old tree and flows to the meadow,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where cattle stand and shake away flies with the tremulous shuddering of their hides,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the cheese-cloth hangs in the kitchen, where andirons straddle the hearth-slab, where cobwebs fall in festoons from the rafters;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where trip-hammers crash, where the press is whirling its cylinders,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Wherever the human heart beats with terrible throes under its ribs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the pear-shaped balloon is floating aloft, (floating in it myself and looking composedly down,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the life-car is drawn on the slip-noose, where the heat hatches pale-green eggs in the dented sand,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the she-whale swims with her calf and never forsakes it,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the steam-ship trails hind-ways its long pennant of smoke,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the fin of the shark cuts like a black chip out of the water,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the half-burn’d brig is riding on unknown currents,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where shells grow to her slimy deck, where the dead are corrupting below;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the dense-starr’d flag is borne at the head of the regiments,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Approaching Manhattan up by the long-stretching island,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Under Niagara, the cataract falling like a veil over my countenance,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Upon a door-step, upon the horse-block of hard wood outside,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Upon the race-course, or enjoying picnics or jigs or a good game of base-ball,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At he-festivals, with blackguard gibes, ironical license, bull-dances, drinking, laughter,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At the cider-mill tasting the sweets of the brown mash, sucking the juice through a straw,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At apple-peelings wanting kisses for all the red fruit I find,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>At musters, beach-parties, friendly bees, huskings, house-raisings;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the mocking-bird sounds his delicious gurgles, cackles, screams, weeps,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the hay-rick stands in the barn-yard, where the dry-stalks are scatter’d, where the brood-cow waits in the hovel,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the bull advances to do his masculine work, where the stud to the mare, where the cock is treading the hen,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the heifers browse, where geese nip their food with short jerks,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where sun-down shadows lengthen over the limitless and lonesome prairie,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where herds of buffalo make a crawling spread of the square miles far and near,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the humming-bird shimmers, where the neck of the long-lived swan is curving and winding,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the laughing-gull scoots by the shore, where she laughs her near-human laugh,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where bee-hives range on a gray bench in the garden half hid by the high weeds,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where band-neck’d partridges roost in a ring on the ground with their heads out,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where burial coaches enter the arch’d gates of a cemetery,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where winter wolves bark amid wastes of snow and icicled trees,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the yellow-crown’d heron comes to the edge of the marsh at night and feeds upon small crabs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the splash of swimmers and divers cools the warm noon,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where the katy-did works her chromatic reed on the walnut-tree over the well,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Through patches of citrons and cucumbers with silver-wired leaves,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Through the salt-lick or orange glade, or under conical firs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Through the gymnasium, through the curtain’d saloon, through the office or public hall;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Pleas’d with the native and pleas’d with the foreign, pleas’d with the new and old,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Pleas’d with the homely woman as well as the handsome,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Pleas’d with the quakeress as she puts off her bonnet and talks melodiously,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Pleas’d with the tune of the choir of the whitewash’d church,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Pleas’d with the earnest words of the sweating Methodist preacher, impress’d seriously at the camp-meeting;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Looking in at the shop-windows of Broadway the whole forenoon, flatting the flesh of my nose on the thick plate glass,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Wandering the same afternoon with my face turn’d up to the clouds, or down a lane or along the beach,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My right and left arms round the sides of two friends, and I in the middle;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Coming home with the silent and dark-cheek’d bush-boy, (behind me he rides at the drape of the day,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Far from the settlements studying the print of animals’ feet, or the moccasin print,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>By the cot in the hospital reaching lemonade to a feverish patient,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nigh the coffin’d corpse when all is still, examining with a candle;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Voyaging to every port to dicker and adventure,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Hurrying with the modern crowd as eager and fickle as any,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Hot toward one I hate, ready in my madness to knife him,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Solitary at midnight in my back yard, my thoughts gone from me a long while,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Walking the old hills of Judaea with the beautiful gentle God by my side,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Speeding through space, speeding through heaven and the stars,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Speeding amid the seven satellites and the broad ring, and the diameter of eighty thousand miles,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Speeding with tail’d meteors, throwing fire-balls like the rest,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Carrying the crescent child that carries its own full mother in its belly,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Storming, enjoying, planning, loving, cautioning,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Backing and filling, appearing and disappearing,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I tread day and night such roads.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I visit the orchards of spheres and look at the product,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And look at quintillions ripen’d and look at quintillions green.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I fly those flights of a fluid and swallowing soul,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My course runs below the soundings of plummets.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I help myself to material and immaterial,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>No guard can shut me off, no law prevent me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I anchor my ship for a little while only,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My messengers continually cruise away or bring their returns to me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I go hunting polar furs and the seal, leaping chasms with a pike-pointed staff, clinging to topples of brittle and blue.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I ascend to the foretruck,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I take my place late at night in the crow’s-nest,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>We sail the arctic sea, it is plenty light enough,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Through the clear atmosphere I stretch around on the wonderful beauty,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The enormous masses of ice pass me and I pass them, the scenery is plain in all directions,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The white-topt mountains show in the distance, I fling out my fancies toward them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>We are approaching some great battle-field in which we are soon to be engaged,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>We pass the colossal outposts of the encampment, we pass with still feet and caution,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Or we are entering by the suburbs some vast and ruin’d city,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The blocks and fallen architecture more than all the living cities of the globe.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am a free companion, I bivouac by invading watchfires,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I turn the bridegroom out of bed and stay with the bride myself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I tighten her all night to my thighs and lips.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My voice is the wife’s voice, the screech by the rail of the stairs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They fetch my man’s body up dripping and drown’d.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I understand the large hearts of heroes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The courage of present times and all times,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How the skipper saw the crowded and rudderless wreck of the steam-ship, and Death chasing it up and down the storm,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How he knuckled tight and gave not back an inch, and was faithful of days and faithful of nights,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And chalk’d in large letters on a board, <q>Be of good cheer, we will not desert you;</q></span>
			<br/>
			<span>How he follow’d with them and tack’d with them three days and would not give it up,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How he saved the drifting company at last,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How the lank loose-gown’d women look’d when boated from the side of their prepared graves,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How the silent old-faced infants and the lifted sick, and the sharp-lipp’d unshaved men;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>All this I swallow, it tastes good, I like it well, it becomes mine,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am the man, I suffer’d, I was there.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The disdain and calmness of martyrs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The mother of old, condemn’d for a witch, burnt with dry wood, her children gazing on,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The hounded slave that flags in the race, leans by the fence, blowing, cover’d with sweat,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The twinges that sting like needles his legs and neck, the murderous buckshot and the bullets,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>All these I feel or am.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am the hounded slave, I wince at the bite of the dogs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Hell and despair are upon me, crack and again crack the marksmen,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I clutch the rails of the fence, my gore dribs, thinn’d with the ooze of my skin,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I fall on the weeds and stones,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The riders spur their unwilling horses, haul close,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Taunt my dizzy ears and beat me violently over the head with whip-stocks.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Agonies are one of my changes of garments,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I do not ask the wounded person how he feels, I myself become the wounded person,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My hurts turn livid upon me as I lean on a cane and observe.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am the mash’d fireman with breast-bone broken,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Tumbling walls buried me in their debris,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Heat and smoke I inspired, I heard the yelling shouts of my comrades,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I heard the distant click of their picks and shovels,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They have clear’d the beams away, they tenderly lift me forth.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I lie in the night air in my red shirt, the pervading hush is for my sake,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Painless after all I lie exhausted but not so unhappy,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>White and beautiful are the faces around me, the heads are bared of their fire-caps,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The kneeling crowd fades with the light of the torches.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Distant and dead resuscitate,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They show as the dial or move as the hands of me, I am the clock myself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am an old artillerist, I tell of my fort’s bombardment,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am there again.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Again the long roll of the drummers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Again the attacking cannon, mortars,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Again to my listening ears the cannon responsive.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I take part, I see and hear the whole,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The cries, curses, roar, the plaudits for well-aim’d shots,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The ambulanza slowly passing trailing its red drip,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Workmen searching after damages, making indispensable repairs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The fall of grenades through the rent roof, the fan-shaped explosion,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The whizz of limbs, heads, stone, wood, iron, high in the air.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Again gurgles the mouth of my dying general, he furiously waves with his hand,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>He gasps through the clot <q>Mind not me—mind—the entrenchments.</q></span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-34" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">34</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Now I tell what I knew in Texas in my early youth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(I tell not the fall of Alamo,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not one escaped to tell the fall of Alamo,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The hundred and fifty are dumb yet at Alamo,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>’Tis the tale of the murder in cold blood of four hundred and twelve young men.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Retreating they had form’d in a hollow square with their baggage for breastworks,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nine hundred lives out of the surrounding enemies, nine times their number, was the price they took in advance,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Their colonel was wounded and their ammunition gone,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They treated for an honorable capitulation, receiv’d writing and seal, gave up their arms and march’d back prisoners of war.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>They were the glory of the race of rangers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Matchless with horse, rifle, song, supper, courtship,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Large, turbulent, generous, handsome, proud, and affectionate,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Bearded, sunburnt, drest in the free costume of hunters,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not a single one over thirty years of age.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The second First-day morning they were brought out in squads and massacred, it was beautiful early summer,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The work commenced about five o’clock and was over by eight.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>None obey’d the command to kneel,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Some made a mad and helpless rush, some stood stark and straight,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A few fell at once, shot in the temple or heart, the living and dead lay together,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The maim’d and mangled dug in the dirt, the new-comers saw them there,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Some half-kill’d attempted to crawl away,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>These were despatch’d with bayonets or batter’d with the blunts of muskets,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A youth not seventeen years old seiz’d his assassin till two more came to release him,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The three were all torn and cover’d with the boy’s blood.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>At eleven o’clock began the burning of the bodies;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That is the tale of the murder of the four hundred and twelve young men.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-35" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">35</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Would you hear of an old-time sea-fight?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Would you learn who won by the light of the moon and stars?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>List to the yarn, as my grandmother’s father the sailor told it to me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Our foe was no skulk in his ship I tell you, (said he,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>His was the surly English pluck, and there is no tougher or truer, and never was, and never will be;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Along the lower’d eve he came horribly raking us.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>We closed with him, the yards entangled, the cannon touch’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My captain lash’d fast with his own hands.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>We had receiv’d some eighteen pound shots under the water,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On our lower-gun-deck two large pieces had burst at the first fire, killing all around and blowing up overhead.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Fighting at sun-down, fighting at dark,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ten o’clock at night, the full moon well up, our leaks on the gain, and five feet of water reported,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The master-at-arms loosing the prisoners confined in the after-hold to give them a chance for themselves.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The transit to and from the magazine is now stopt by the sentinels,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They see so many strange faces they do not know whom to trust.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Our frigate takes fire,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The other asks if we demand quarter?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If our colors are struck and the fighting done?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Now I laugh content, for I hear the voice of my little captain,</span>
			<br/>
			<span><q>We have not struck,</q> he composedly cries, <q>we have just begun our part of the fighting.</q></span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Only three guns are in use,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>One is directed by the captain himself against the enemy’s main-mast,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Two well serv’d with grape and canister silence his musketry and clear his decks.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The tops alone second the fire of this little battery, especially the main-top,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They hold out bravely during the whole of the action.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Not a moment’s cease,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The leaks gain fast on the pumps, the fire eats toward the powder-magazine.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>One of the pumps has been shot away, it is generally thought we are sinking.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Serene stands the little captain,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>He is not hurried, his voice is neither high nor low,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>His eyes give more light to us than our battle-lanterns.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Toward twelve there in the beams of the moon they surrender to us.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-36" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">36</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Stretch’d and still lies the midnight,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Two great hulls motionless on the breast of the darkness,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Our vessel riddled and slowly sinking, preparations to pass to the one we have conquer’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The captain on the quarter-deck coldly giving his orders through a countenance white as a sheet,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Near by the corpse of the child that serv’d in the cabin,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The dead face of an old salt with long white hair and carefully curl’d whiskers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The flames spite of all that can be done flickering aloft and below,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The husky voices of the two or three officers yet fit for duty,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Formless stacks of bodies and bodies by themselves, dabs of flesh upon the masts and spars,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Cut of cordage, dangle of rigging, slight shock of the soothe of waves,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Black and impassive guns, litter of powder-parcels, strong scent,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A few large stars overhead, silent and mournful shining,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Delicate sniffs of sea-breeze, smells of sedgy grass and fields by the shore, death-messages given in charge to survivors,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The hiss of the surgeon’s knife, the gnawing teeth of his saw,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Wheeze, cluck, swash of falling blood, short wild scream, and long, dull, tapering groan,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>These so, these irretrievable.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-37" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">37</h3>
		<p>
			<span>You laggards there on guard! look to your arms!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In at the conquer’d doors they crowd! I am possess’d!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Embody all presences outlaw’d or suffering,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>See myself in prison shaped like another man,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And feel the dull unintermitted pain.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>For me the keepers of convicts shoulder their carbines and keep watch,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It is I let out in the morning and barr’d at night.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Not a mutineer walks handcuff’d to jail but I am handcuff’d to him and walk by his side,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(I am less the jolly one there, and more the silent one with sweat on my twitching lips.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Not a youngster is taken for larceny but I go up too, and am tried and sentenced.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Not a cholera patient lies at the last gasp but I also lie at the last gasp,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My face is ash-color’d, my sinews gnarl, away from me people retreat.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Askers embody themselves in me and I am embodied in them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I project my hat, sit shame-faced, and beg.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-38" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">38</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Enough! enough! enough!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Somehow I have been stunn’d. Stand back!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Give me a little time beyond my cuff’d head, slumbers, dreams, gaping,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I discover myself on the verge of a usual mistake.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>That I could forget the mockers and insults!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That I could forget the trickling tears and the blows of the bludgeons and hammers!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That I could look with a separate look on my own crucifixion and bloody crowning!</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I remember now,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I resume the overstaid fraction,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The grave of rock multiplies what has been confided to it, or to any graves,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Corpses rise, gashes heal, fastenings roll from me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I troop forth replenish’d with supreme power, one of an average unending procession,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Inland and sea-coast we go, and pass all boundary lines,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Our swift ordinances on their way over the whole earth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The blossoms we wear in our hats the growth of thousands of years.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Eleves, I salute you! come forward!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Continue your annotations, continue your questionings.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-39" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">39</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The friendly and flowing savage, who is he?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Is he waiting for civilization, or past it and mastering it?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Is he some Southwesterner rais’d out-doors? is he Kanadian?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Is he from the Mississippi country? Iowa, Oregon, California?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The mountains? prairie-life, bush-life? or sailor from the sea?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Wherever he goes men and women accept and desire him,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They desire he should like them, touch them, speak to them, stay with them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Behavior lawless as snow-flakes, words simple as grass, uncomb’d head, laughter, and naivetè,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Slow-stepping feet, common features, common modes and emanations,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They descend in new forms from the tips of his fingers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They are wafted with the odor of his body or breath, they fly out of the glance of his eyes.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-40" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">40</h3>
		<p>
			<span>Flaunt of the sunshine I need not your bask—lie over!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You light surfaces only, I force surfaces and depths also.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Earth! you seem to look for something at my hands,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Say, old top-knot, what do you want?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Man or woman, I might tell how I like you, but cannot,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And might tell what it is in me and what it is in you, but cannot,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And might tell that pining I have, that pulse of my nights and days.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Behold, I do not give lectures or a little charity,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>When I give I give myself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>You there, impotent, loose in the knees,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Open your scarf’d chops till I blow grit within you,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Spread your palms and lift the flaps of your pockets,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am not to be denied, I compel, I have stores plenty and to spare,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And any thing I have I bestow.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I do not ask who you are, that is not important to me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You can do nothing and be nothing but what I will infold you.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>To cotton-field drudge or cleaner of privies I lean,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On his right cheek I put the family kiss,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And in my soul I swear I never will deny him.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>On women fit for conception I start bigger and nimbler babes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(This day I am jetting the stuff of far more arrogant republics.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>To any one dying, thither I speed and twist the knob of the door,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Turn the bed-clothes toward the foot of the bed,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Let the physician and the priest go home.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I seize the descending man and raise him with resistless will,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>O despairer, here is my neck,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>By God, you shall not go down! hang your whole weight upon me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I dilate you with tremendous breath, I buoy you up,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Every room of the house do I fill with an arm’d force,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Lovers of me, bafflers of graves.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Sleep—I and they keep guard all night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not doubt, not disease shall dare to lay finger upon you,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I have embraced you, and henceforth possess you to myself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And when you rise in the morning you will find what I tell you is so.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-41" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">41</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I am he bringing help for the sick as they pant on their backs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And for strong upright men I bring yet more needed help.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I heard what was said of the universe,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Heard it and heard it of several thousand years;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It is middling well as far as it goes—but is that all?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Magnifying and applying come I,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Outbidding at the start the old cautious hucksters,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Taking myself the exact dimensions of Jehovah,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Lithographing Kronos, Zeus his son, and Hercules his grandson,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Buying drafts of Osiris, Isis, Belus, Brahma, Buddha,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In my portfolio placing Manito loose, Allah on a leaf, the crucifix engraved,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>With Odin and the hideous-faced Mexitli and every idol and image,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Taking them all for what they are worth and not a cent more,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Admitting they were alive and did the work of their days,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(They bore mites as for unfledg’d birds who have now to rise and fly and sing for themselves,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Accepting the rough deific sketches to fill out better in myself, bestowing them freely on each man and woman I see,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Discovering as much or more in a framer framing a house,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Putting higher claims for him there with his roll’d-up sleeves driving the mallet and chisel,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Not objecting to special revelations, considering a curl of smoke or a hair on the back of my hand just as curious as any revelation,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Lads ahold of fire-engines and hook-and-ladder ropes no less to me than the gods of the antique wars,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Minding their voices peal through the crash of destruction,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Their brawny limbs passing safe over charr’d laths, their white foreheads whole and unhurt out of the flames;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>By the mechanic’s wife with her babe at her nipple interceding for every person born,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Three scythes at harvest whizzing in a row from three lusty angels with shirts bagg’d out at their waists,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The snag-tooth’d hostler with red hair redeeming sins past and to come,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Selling all he possesses, traveling on foot to fee lawyers for his brother and sit by him while he is tried for forgery;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What was strewn in the amplest strewing the square rod about me, and not filling the square rod then,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The bull and the bug never worshipp’d half enough,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Dung and dirt more admirable than was dream’d,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The supernatural of no account, myself waiting my time to be one of the supremes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The day getting ready for me when I shall do as much good as the best, and be as prodigious;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>By my life-lumps! becoming already a creator,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Putting myself here and now to the ambush’d womb of the shadows.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-42" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">42</h3>
		<p>
			<span>A call in the midst of the crowd,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My own voice, orotund sweeping and final.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Come my children,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Come my boys and girls, my women, household and intimates,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Now the performer launches his nerve, he has pass’d his prelude on the reeds within.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Easily written loose-finger’d chords—I feel the thrum of your climax and close.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My head slues round on my neck,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Music rolls, but not from the organ,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Folks are around me, but they are no household of mine.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Ever the hard unsunk ground,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ever the eaters and drinkers, ever the upward and downward sun, ever the air and the ceaseless tides,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ever myself and my neighbors, refreshing, wicked, real,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ever the old inexplicable query, ever that thorn’d thumb, that breath of itches and thirsts,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ever the vexer’s <q>hoot! hoot!</q> till we find where the sly one hides and bring him forth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ever love, ever the sobbing liquid of life,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ever the bandage under the chin, ever the trestles of death.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Here and there with dimes on the eyes walking,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To feed the greed of the belly the brains liberally spooning,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Tickets buying, taking, selling, but in to the feast never once going,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Many sweating, ploughing, thrashing, and then the chaff for payment receiving,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>A few idly owning, and they the wheat continually claiming.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>This is the city and I am one of the citizens,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Whatever interests the rest interests me, politics, wars, markets, newspapers, schools,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The mayor and councils, banks, tariffs, steamships, factories, stocks, stores, real estate and personal estate.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The little plentiful manikins skipping around in collars and tail’d coats,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am aware who they are, (they are positively not worms or fleas,)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I acknowledge the duplicates of myself, the weakest and shallowest is deathless with me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>What I do and say the same waits for them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Every thought that flounders in me the same flounders in them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I know perfectly well my own egotism,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Know my omnivorous lines and must not write any less,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And would fetch you whoever you are flush with myself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Not words of routine this song of mine,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But abruptly to question, to leap beyond yet nearer bring;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>This printed and bound book—but the printer and the printing-office boy?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The well-taken photographs—but your wife or friend close and solid in your arms?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The black ship mail’d with iron, her mighty guns in her turrets—but the pluck of the captain and engineers?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In the houses the dishes and fare and furniture—but the host and hostess, and the look out of their eyes?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The sky up there—yet here or next door, or across the way?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The saints and sages in history—but you yourself?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Sermons, creeds, theology—but the fathomless human brain,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And what is reason? and what is love? and what is life?</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-43" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">43</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I do not despise you priests, all time, the world over,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My faith is the greatest of faiths and the least of faiths,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Enclosing worship ancient and modern and all between ancient and modern,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Believing I shall come again upon the earth after five thousand years,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Waiting responses from oracles, honoring the gods, saluting the sun,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Making a fetich of the first rock or stump, powowing with sticks in the circle of obis,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Helping the llama or brahmin as he trims the lamps of the idols,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Dancing yet through the streets in a phallic procession, rapt and austere in the woods a gymnosophist,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Drinking mead from the skull-cup, to Shastas and Vedas admirant, minding the Koran,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Walking the teokallis, spotted with gore from the stone and knife, beating the serpent-skin drum,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Accepting the Gospels, accepting him that was crucified, knowing assuredly that he is divine,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To the mass kneeling or the puritan’s prayer rising, or sitting patiently in a pew,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Ranting and frothing in my insane crisis, or waiting dead-like till my spirit arouses me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Looking forth on pavement and land, or outside of pavement and land,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Belonging to the winders of the circuit of circuits.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>One of that centripetal and centrifugal gang I turn and talk like a man leaving charges before a journey.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Down-hearted doubters dull and excluded,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Frivolous, sullen, moping, angry, affected, dishearten’d, atheistical,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I know every one of you, I know the sea of torment, doubt, despair and unbelief.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>How the flukes splash!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>How they contort rapid as lightning, with spasms and spouts of blood!</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Be at peace bloody flukes of doubters and sullen mopers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I take my place among you as much as among any,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The past is the push of you, me, all, precisely the same,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And what is yet untried and afterward is for you, me, all, precisely the same.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I do not know what is untried and afterward,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But I know it will in its turn prove sufficient, and cannot fail.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Each who passes is consider’d, each who stops is consider’d, not a single one can it fail.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>It cannot fail the young man who died and was buried,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor the young woman who died and was put by his side,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor the little child that peep’d in at the door, and then drew back and was never seen again,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor the old man who has lived without purpose, and feels it with bitterness worse than gall,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor him in the poor house tubercled by rum and the bad disorder,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor the numberless slaughter’d and wreck’d, nor the brutish koboo call’d the ordure of humanity,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor the sacs merely floating with open mouths for food to slip in,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor any thing in the earth, or down in the oldest graves of the earth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor any thing in the myriads of spheres, nor the myriads of myriads that inhabit them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor the present, nor the least wisp that is known.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-44" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">44</h3>
		<p>
			<span>It is time to explain myself—let us stand up.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>What is known I strip away,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I launch all men and women forward with me into the Unknown.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The clock indicates the moment—but what does eternity indicate?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>We have thus far exhausted trillions of winters and summers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>There are trillions ahead, and trillions ahead of them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Births have brought us richness and variety,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And other births will bring us richness and variety.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I do not call one greater and one smaller,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>That which fills its period and place is equal to any.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Were mankind murderous or jealous upon you, my brother, my sister?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I am sorry for you, they are not murderous or jealous upon me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>All has been gentle with me, I keep no account with lamentation,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(What have I to do with lamentation?)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I am an acme of things accomplish’d, and I an encloser of things to be.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My feet strike an apex of the apices of the stairs,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On every step bunches of ages, and larger bunches between the steps,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>All below duly travel’d, and still I mount and mount.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Rise after rise bow the phantoms behind me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Afar down I see the huge first Nothing, I know I was even there,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I waited unseen and always, and slept through the lethargic mist,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And took my time, and took no hurt from the fetid carbon.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Long I was hugg’d close—long and long.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Immense have been the preparations for me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Faithful and friendly the arms that have help’d me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Cycles ferried my cradle, rowing and rowing like cheerful boatmen,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For room to me stars kept aside in their own rings,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They sent influences to look after what was to hold me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Before I was born out of my mother generations guided me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My embryo has never been torpid, nothing could overlay it.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>For it the nebula cohered to an orb,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The long slow strata piled to rest it on,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Vast vegetables gave it sustenance,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Monstrous sauroids transported it in their mouths and deposited it with care.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>All forces have been steadily employ’d to complete and delight me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Now on this spot I stand with my robust soul.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-45" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">45</h3>
		<p>
			<span>O span of youth! ever-push’d elasticity!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>O manhood, balanced, florid and full.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My lovers suffocate me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Crowding my lips, thick in the pores of my skin,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Jostling me through streets and public halls, coming naked to me at night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Crying by day <q>Ahoy!</q> from the rocks of the river, swinging and chirping over my head,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Calling my name from flower-beds, vines, tangled underbrush,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Lighting on every moment of my life,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Bussing my body with soft balsamic busses,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Noiselessly passing handfuls out of their hearts and giving them to be mine.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Old age superbly rising! O welcome, ineffable grace of dying days!</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Every condition promulges not only itself, it promulges what grows after and out of itself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the dark hush promulges as much as any.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I open my scuttle at night and see the far-sprinkled systems,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And all I see multiplied as high as I can cipher edge but the rim of the farther systems.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Wider and wider they spread, expanding, always expanding,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Outward and outward and forever outward.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My sun has his sun and round him obediently wheels,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>He joins with his partners a group of superior circuit,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And greater sets follow, making specks of the greatest inside them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>There is no stoppage and never can be stoppage,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If I, you, and the worlds, and all beneath or upon their surfaces, were this moment reduced back to a pallid float, it would not avail in the long run,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>We should surely bring up again where we now stand,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And surely go as much farther, and then farther and farther.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>A few quadrillions of eras, a few octillions of cubic leagues, do not hazard the span or make it impatient,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They are but parts, any thing is but a part.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>See ever so far, there is limitless space outside of that,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Count ever so much, there is limitless time around that.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My rendezvous is appointed, it is certain,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The Lord will be there and wait till I come on perfect terms,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The great Camerado, the lover true for whom I pine will be there.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-46" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">46</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I know I have the best of time and space, and was never measured and never will be measured.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I tramp a perpetual journey, (come listen all!)</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My signs are a rain-proof coat, good shoes, and a staff cut from the woods,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>No friend of mine takes his ease in my chair,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I have no chair, no church, no philosophy,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I lead no man to a dinner-table, library, exchange,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But each man and each woman of you I lead upon a knoll,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My left hand hooking you round the waist,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My right hand pointing to landscapes of continents and the public road.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Not I, not any one else can travel that road for you,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You must travel it for yourself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>It is not far, it is within reach,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Perhaps you have been on it since you were born and did not know,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Perhaps it is everywhere on water and on land.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Shoulder your duds dear son, and I will mine, and let us hasten forth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Wonderful cities and free nations we shall fetch as we go.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>If you tire, give me both burdens, and rest the chuff of your hand on my hip,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And in due time you shall repay the same service to me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For after we start we never lie by again.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>This day before dawn I ascended a hill and look’d at the crowded heaven,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I said to my spirit <q>When we become the enfolders of those orbs, and the pleasure and knowledge of every thing in them, shall we be fill’d and satisfied then?</q></span>
			<br/>
			<span>And my spirit said <q>No, we but level that lift to pass and continue beyond.</q></span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>You are also asking me questions and I hear you,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I answer that I cannot answer, you must find out for yourself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Sit a while dear son,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Here are biscuits to eat and here is milk to drink,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But as soon as you sleep and renew yourself in sweet clothes, I kiss you with a good-by kiss and open the gate for your egress hence.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Long enough have you dream’d contemptible dreams,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Now I wash the gum from your eyes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>You must habit yourself to the dazzle of the light and of every moment of your life.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Long have you timidly waded holding a plank by the shore,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Now I will you to be a bold swimmer,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To jump off in the midst of the sea, rise again, nod to me, shout, and laughingly dash with your hair.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-47" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">47</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I am the teacher of athletes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>He that by me spreads a wider breast than my own proves the width of my own,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>He most honors my style who learns under it to destroy the teacher.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The boy I love, the same becomes a man not through derived power, but in his own right,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Wicked rather than virtuous out of conformity or fear,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Fond of his sweetheart, relishing well his steak,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Unrequited love or a slight cutting him worse than sharp steel cuts,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>First-rate to ride, to fight, to hit the bull’s eye, to sail a skiff, to sing a song or play on the banjo,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Preferring scars and the beard and faces pitted with small-pox over all latherers,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And those well-tann’d to those that keep out of the sun.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I teach straying from me, yet who can stray from me?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I follow you whoever you are from the present hour,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My words itch at your ears till you understand them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I do not say these things for a dollar or to fill up the time while I wait for a boat,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(It is you talking just as much as myself, I act as the tongue of you,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Tied in your mouth, in mine it begins to be loosen’d.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I swear I will never again mention love or death inside a house,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I swear I will never translate myself at all, only to him or her who privately stays with me in the open air.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>If you would understand me go to the heights or water-shore,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The nearest gnat is an explanation, and a drop or motion of waves a key,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The maul, the oar, the hand-saw, second my words.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>No shutter’d room or school can commune with me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But roughs and little children better than they.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The young mechanic is closest to me, he knows me well,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The woodman that takes his axe and jug with him shall take me with him all day,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The farm-boy ploughing in the field feels good at the sound of my voice,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In vessels that sail my words sail, I go with fishermen and seamen and love them.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The soldier camp’d or upon the march is mine,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On the night ere the pending battle many seek me, and I do not fail them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On that solemn night (it may be their last) those that know me seek me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>My face rubs to the hunter’s face when he lies down alone in his blanket,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The driver thinking of me does not mind the jolt of his wagon,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The young mother and old mother comprehend me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The girl and the wife rest the needle a moment and forget where they are,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>They and all would resume what I have told them.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-48" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">48</h3>
		<p>
			<span>I have said that the soul is not more than the body,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I have said that the body is not more than the soul,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And nothing, not God, is greater to one than one’s self is,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And whoever walks a furlong without sympathy walks to his own funeral drest in his shroud,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I or you pocketless of a dime may purchase the pick of the earth,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And to glance with an eye or show a bean in its pod confounds the learning of all times,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And there is no trade or employment but the young man following it may become a hero,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And there is no object so soft but it makes a hub for the wheel’d universe,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I say to any man or woman, Let your soul stand cool and composed before a million universes.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>And I say to mankind, Be not curious about God,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>For I who am curious about each am not curious about God,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(No array of terms can say how much I am at peace about God and about death.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I hear and behold God in every object, yet understand God not in the least,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Nor do I understand who there can be more wonderful than myself.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Why should I wish to see God better than this day?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I see something of God each hour of the twenty-four, and each moment then,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In the faces of men and women I see God, and in my own face in the glass,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I find letters from God dropt in the street, and every one is sign’d by God’s name,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And I leave them where they are, for I know that wheresoe’er I go,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Others will punctually come for ever and ever.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-49" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">49</h3>
		<p>
			<span>And as to you Death, and you bitter hug of mortality, it is idle to try to alarm me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>To his work without flinching the accoucheur comes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I see the elder-hand pressing receiving supporting,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I recline by the sills of the exquisite flexible doors,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And mark the outlet, and mark the relief and escape.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>And as to you Corpse I think you are good manure, but that does not offend me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I smell the white roses sweet-scented and growing,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I reach to the leafy lips, I reach to the polish’d breasts of melons.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>And as to you Life I reckon you are the leavings of many deaths,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(No doubt I have died myself ten thousand times before.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I hear you whispering there O stars of heaven,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>O suns—O grass of graves—O perpetual transfers and promotions,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If you do not say any thing how can I say any thing?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Of the turbid pool that lies in the autumn forest,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Of the moon that descends the steeps of the soughing twilight,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Toss, sparkles of day and dusk—toss on the black stems that decay in the muck,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Toss to the moaning gibberish of the dry limbs.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I ascend from the moon, I ascend from the night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I perceive that the ghastly glimmer is noonday sunbeams reflected,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And debouch to the steady and central from the offspring great or small.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-50" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">50</h3>
		<p>
			<span>There is that in me—I do not know what it is—but I know it is in me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Wrench’d and sweaty—calm and cool then my body becomes,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I sleep—I sleep long.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I do not know it—it is without name—it is a word unsaid,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It is not in any dictionary, utterance, symbol.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Something it swings on more than the earth I swing on,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To it the creation is the friend whose embracing awakes me.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Perhaps I might tell more. Outlines! I plead for my brothers and sisters.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Do you see O my brothers and sisters?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It is not chaos or death—it is form, union, plan—it is eternal life—it is Happiness.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-51" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">51</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The past and present wilt—I have fill’d them, emptied them,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And proceed to fill my next fold of the future.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Listener up there! what have you to confide to me?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Look in my face while I snuff the sidle of evening,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(Talk honestly, no one else hears you, and I stay only a minute longer.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Do I contradict myself?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Very well then I contradict myself,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>(I am large, I contain multitudes.)</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I concentrate toward them that are nigh, I wait on the door-slab.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Who has done his day’s work? who will soonest be through with his supper?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Who wishes to walk with me?</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Will you speak before I am gone? will you prove already too late?</span>
		</p>
	</section>
	<section id="song-of-myself-52" epub:type="part">
		<h3 epub:type="ordinal">52</h3>
		<p>
			<span>The spotted hawk swoops by and accuses me, he complains of my gab and my loitering.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I too am not a bit tamed, I too am untranslatable,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>The last scud of day holds back for me,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It flings my likeness after the rest and true as any on the shadow’d wilds,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It coaxes me to the vapor and the dusk.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I depart as air, I shake my white locks at the runaway sun,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I effuse my flesh in eddies, and drift it in lacy jags.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>I bequeath myself to the dirt to grow from the grass I love,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>If you want me again look for me under your boot-soles.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>You will hardly know who I am or what I mean,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>But I shall be good health to you nevertheless,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And filter and fibre your blood.</span>
		</p>
		<p>
			<span>Failing to fetch me at first keep encouraged,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Missing me one place search another,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I stop somewhere waiting for you.</span>
		</p>
	</section>
</article>
</section>
</body>
</html>
