<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Song of the Answerer</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="song-of-the-answerer" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song of the Answerer</h2>
			<section id="song-of-the-answerer-1" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Now list to my morning’s romanza, I tell the signs of the Answerer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the cities and farms I sing as they spread in the sunshine before me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A young man comes to me bearing a message from his brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How shall the young man know the whether and when of his brother?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell him to send me the signs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And I stand before the young man face to face, and take his right hand in my left hand and his left hand in my right hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I answer for his brother and for men, and I answer for him that answers for all, and send these signs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Him all wait for, him all yield up to, his word is decisive and final,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him they accept, in him lave, in him perceive themselves as amid light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Him they immerse and he immerses them.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beautiful women, the haughtiest nations, laws, the landscape, people, animals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The profound earth and its attributes and the unquiet ocean, (so tell I my morning’s romanza,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All enjoyments and properties and money, and whatever money will buy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The best farms, others toiling and planting and he unavoidably reaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The noblest and costliest cities, others grading and building and he domiciles there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing for any one but what is for him, near and far are for him, the ships in the offing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The perpetual shows and marches on land are for him if they are for anybody.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He puts things in their attitudes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He puts to-day out of himself with plasticity and love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He places his own times, reminiscences, parents, brothers and sisters, associations, employment, politics, so that the rest never shame them afterward, nor assume to command them.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He is the Answerer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What can be answer’d he answers, and what cannot be answer’d he shows how it cannot be answer’d.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A man is a summons and challenge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(It is vain to skulk⁠—do you hear that mocking and laughter? do you hear the ironical echoes?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Books, friendships, philosophers, priests, action, pleasure, pride, beat up and down seeking to give satisfaction,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He indicates the satisfaction, and indicates them that beat up and down also.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whichever the sex, whatever the season or place, he may go freshly and gently and safely by day or by night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has the pass-key of hearts, to him the response of the prying of hands on the knobs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His welcome is universal, the flow of beauty is not more welcome or universal than he is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The person he favors by day or sleeps with at night is blessed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Every existence has its idiom, everything has an idiom and tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He resolves all tongues into his own and bestows it upon men, and any man translates, and any man translates himself also,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One part does not counteract another part, he is the joiner, he sees how they join.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He says indifferently and alike <q>How are you friend?</q> to the President at his levee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he says <q>Good day my brother,</q> to Cudge that hoes in the sugar-field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And both understand him and know that his speech is right.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He walks with perfect ease in the capitol,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He walks among the Congress, and one Representative says to another, <q>Here is our equal appearing and new.</q></span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the mechanics take him for a mechanic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the soldiers suppose him to be a soldier, and the sailors that he has follow’d the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the authors take him for an author, and the artists for an artist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the laborers perceive he could labor with them and love them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No matter what the work is, that he is the one to follow it or has follow’d it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No matter what the nation, that he might find his brothers and sisters there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The English believe he comes of their English stock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Jew to the Jew he seems, a Russ to the Russ, usual and near, removed from none.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whoever he looks at in the traveler’s coffee-house claims him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Italian or Frenchman is sure, the German is sure, the Spaniard is sure, and the island Cuban is sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The engineer, the deck-hand on the great lakes, or on the Mississippi or <abbr>St.</abbr> Lawrence or Sacramento, or Hudson or Paumanok sound, claims him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gentleman of perfect blood acknowledges his perfect blood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The insulter, the prostitute, the angry person, the beggar, see themselves in the ways of him, he strangely transmutes them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are not vile any more, they hardly know themselves they are so grown.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="song-of-the-answerer-2" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The indications and tally of time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perfect sanity shows the master among philosophs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time, always without break, indicates itself in parts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What always indicates the poet is the crowd of the pleasant company of singers, and their words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The words of the singers are the hours or minutes of the light or dark, but the words of the maker of poems are the general light and dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The maker of poems settles justice, reality, immortality,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His insight and power encircle things and the human race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is the glory and extract thus far of things and of the human race.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The singers do not beget, only the Poet begets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The singers are welcom’d, understood, appear often enough, but rare has the day been, likewise the spot, of the birth of the maker of poems, the Answerer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Not every century nor every five centuries has contain’d such a day, for all its names.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The singers of successive hours of centuries may have ostensible names, but the name of each of them is one of the singers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The name of each is, eye-singer, ear-singer, head-singer, sweet-singer, night-singer, parlor-singer, love-singer, weird-singer, or something else.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All this time and at all times wait the words of true poems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The words of true poems do not merely please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The true poets are not followers of beauty but the august masters of beauty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The greatness of sons is the exuding of the greatness of mothers and fathers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The words of true poems are the tuft and final applause of science.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Divine instinct, breadth of vision, the law of reason, health, rudeness of body, withdrawnness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gayety, sun-tan, air-sweetness, such are some of the words of poems.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sailor and traveler underlie the maker of poems, the Answerer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The builder, geometer, chemist, anatomist, phrenologist, artist, all these underlie the maker of poems, the Answerer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The words of the true poems give you more than poems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They give you to form for yourself poems, religions, politics, war, peace, behavior, histories, essays, daily life, and everything else,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They balance ranks, colors, races, creeds, and the sexes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They do not seek beauty, they are sought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever touching them or close upon them follows beauty, longing, fain, love-sick.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They prepare for death, yet they are not the finish, but rather the outset,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They bring none to his or her terminus or to be content and full,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom they take they take into space to behold the birth of stars, to learn one of the meanings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To launch off with absolute faith, to sweep through the ceaseless rings and never be quiet again.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
