<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Starting from Paumanok</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="starting-from-paumanok" epub:type="chapter z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Starting from Paumanok</h2>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-1" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Starting from fish-shape Paumanok where I was born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well-begotten, and rais’d by a perfect mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After roaming many lands, lover of populous pavements,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dweller in Mannahatta my city, or on southern savannas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a soldier camp’d or carrying my knapsack and gun, or a miner in California,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or rude in my home in Dakota’s woods, my diet meat, my drink from the spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or withdrawn to muse and meditate in some deep recess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far from the clank of crowds intervals passing rapt and happy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aware of the fresh free giver the flowing Missouri, aware of mighty Niagara,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aware of the buffalo herds grazing the plains, the hirsute and strong-breasted bull,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earth, rocks, Fifth-month flowers experienced, stars, rain, snow, my amaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Having studied the mocking-bird’s tones and the flight of the mountain-hawk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heard at dawn the unrivall’d one, the hermit thrush from the swamp-cedars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Solitary, singing in the West, I strike up for a New World.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-2" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Victory, union, faith, identity, time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The indissoluble compacts, riches, mystery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternal progress, the kosmos, and the modern reports.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This then is life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here is what has come to the surface after so many throes and convulsions.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How curious! how real!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Underfoot the divine soil, overhead the sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See revolving the globe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ancestor-continents away group’d together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The present and future continents north and south, with the isthmus between.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See, vast trackless spaces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in a dream they change, they swiftly fill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Countless masses debouch upon them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are now cover’d with the foremost people, arts, institutions, known.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See, projected through time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For me an audience interminable.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With firm and regular step they wend, they never stop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successions of men, Americanos, a hundred millions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One generation playing its part and passing on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another generation playing its part and passing on in its turn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With faces turn’d sideways or backward towards me to listen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eyes retrospective towards me.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-3" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Americanos! conquerors! marches humanitarian!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foremost! century marches! Libertad! masses!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you a programme of chants.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Chants of the prairies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chants of the long-running Mississippi, and down to the Mexican sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chants of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chants going forth from the centre from Kansas, and thence equidistant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shooting in pulses of fire ceaseless to vivify all.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-4" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Take my leaves America, take them South and take them North,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make welcome for them everywhere, for they are your own offspring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surround them East and West, for they would surround you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you precedents, connect lovingly with them, for they connect lovingly with you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I conn’d old times,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat studying at the feet of the great masters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now if eligible O that the great masters might return and study me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the name of these States shall I scorn the antique?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why these are the children of the antique to justify it.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-5" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dead poets, philosophs, priests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Martyrs, artists, inventors, governments long since,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Language-shapers on other shores,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nations once powerful, now reduced, withdrawn, or desolate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I dare not proceed till I respectfully credit what you have left wafted hither,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have perused it, own it is admirable, (moving awhile among it,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think nothing can ever be greater, nothing can ever deserve more than it deserves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Regarding it all intently a long while, then dismissing it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I stand in my place with my own day here.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here lands female and male,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here the heir-ship and heiress-ship of the world, here the flame of materials,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here spirituality the translatress, the openly-avow’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ever-tending, the finalè of visible forms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The satisfier, after due long-waiting now advancing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes here comes my mistress the soul.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-6" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever and forever⁠—longer than soil is brown and solid⁠—longer than water ebbs and flows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will make the poems of materials, for I think they are to be the most spiritual poems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will make the poems of my body and of mortality,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I think I shall then supply myself with the poems of my soul and of immortality.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will make a song for these States that no one State may under any circumstances be subjected to another State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will make a song that there shall be comity by day and by night between all the States, and between any two of them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will make a song for the ears of the President, full of weapons with menacing points,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And behind the weapons countless dissatisfied faces;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a song make I of the One form’d out of all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fang’d and glittering One whose head is over all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resolute warlike One including and over all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(However high the head of any else that head is over all.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will acknowledge contemporary lands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will trail the whole geography of the globe and salute courteously every city large and small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And employments! I will put in my poems that with you is heroism upon land and sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will report all heroism from an American point of view.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will sing the song of companionship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will show what alone must finally compact these,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I believe these are to found their own ideal of manly love, indicating it in me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will therefore let flame from me the burning fires that were threatening to consume me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will lift what has too long kept down those smouldering fires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will give them complete abandonment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will write the evangel-poem of comrades and of love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For who but I should understand love with all its sorrow and joy?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who but I should be the poet of comrades?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-7" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">7</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I am the credulous man of qualities, ages, races,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I advance from the people in their own spirit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here is what sings unrestricted faith.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Omnes! omnes! let others ignore what they may,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I make the poem of evil also, I commemorate that part also,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am myself just as much evil as good, and my nation is⁠—and I say there is in fact no evil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Or if there is I say it is just as important to you, to the land or to me, as any thing else.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I too, following many and follow’d by many, inaugurate a religion, I descend into the arena,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(It may be I am destin’d to utter the loudest cries there, the winner’s pealing shouts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows? they may rise from me yet, and soar above every thing.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Each is not for its own sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I say the whole earth and all the stars in the sky are for religion’s sake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I say no man has ever yet been half devout enough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None has ever yet adored or worship’d half enough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None has begun to think how divine he himself is, and how certain the future is.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I say that the real and permanent grandeur of these States must be their religion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Otherwise there is no real and permanent grandeur;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Nor character nor life worthy the name without religion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor land nor man or woman without religion.)</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-8" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">8</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What are you doing young man?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you so earnest, so given up to literature, science, art, amours?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These ostensible realities, politics, points?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your ambition or business whatever it may be?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is well⁠—against such I say not a word, I am their poet also,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But behold! such swiftly subside, burnt up for religion’s sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For not all matter is fuel to heat, impalpable flame, the essential life of the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Any more than such are to religion.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-9" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">9</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What do you seek so pensive and silent?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What do you need camerado?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear son do you think it is love?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Listen dear son⁠—listen America, daughter or son,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a painful thing to love a man or woman to excess, and yet it satisfies, it is great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there is something else very great, it makes the whole coincide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It, magnificent, beyond materials, with continuous hands sweeps and provides for all.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-10" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">10</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Know you, solely to drop in the earth the germs of a greater religion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The following chants each for its kind I sing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My comrade!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you to share with me two greatnesses, and a third one rising inclusive and more resplendent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The greatness of Love and Democracy, and the greatness of Religion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Melange mine own, the unseen and the seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mysterious ocean where the streams empty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prophetic spirit of materials shifting and flickering around me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living beings, identities now doubtless near us in the air that we know not of,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contact daily and hourly that will not release me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These selecting, these in hints demanded of me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not he with a daily kiss onward from childhood kissing me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has winded and twisted around me that which holds me to him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Any more than I am held to the heavens and all the spiritual world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After what they have done to me, suggesting themes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O such themes⁠—equalities! O divine average!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warblings under the sun, usher’d as now, or at noon, or setting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strains musical flowing through ages, now reaching hither,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I take to your reckless and composite chords, add to them, and cheerfully pass them forward.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-11" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">11</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As I have walk’d in Alabama my morning walk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have seen where the she-bird the mocking-bird sat on her nest in the briers hatching her brood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have seen the he-bird also,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have paus’d to hear him near at hand inflating his throat and joyfully singing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And while I paus’d it came to me that what he really sang for was not there only,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor for his mate nor himself only, nor all sent back by the echoes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But subtle, clandestine, away beyond,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A charge transmitted and gift occult for those being born.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-12" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">12</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Democracy! near at hand to you a throat is now inflating itself and joyfully singing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ma femme! for the brood beyond us and of us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For those who belong here and those to come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I exultant to be ready for them will now shake out carols stronger and haughtier than have ever yet been heard upon earth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will make the songs of passion to give them their way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your songs outlaw’d offenders, for I scan you with kindred eyes, and carry you with me the same as any.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will make the true poem of riches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To earn for the body and the mind whatever adheres and goes forward and is not dropt by death;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will effuse egotism and show it underlying all, and I will be the bard of personality,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will show of male and female that either is but the equal of the other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sexual organs and acts! do you concentrate in me, for I am determin’d to tell you with courageous clear voice to prove you illustrious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will show that there is no imperfection in the present, and can be none in the future,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will show that whatever happens to anybody it may be turn’d to beautiful results,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will show that nothing can happen more beautiful than death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will thread a thread through my poems that time and events are compact,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that all the things of the universe are perfect miracles, each as profound as any.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I will not make poems with reference to parts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I will make poems, songs, thoughts, with reference to ensemble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will not sing with reference to a day, but with reference to all days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will not make a poem nor the least part of a poem but has reference to the soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because having look’d at the objects of the universe, I find there is no one nor any particle of one but has reference to the soul.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-13" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">13</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Was somebody asking to see the soul?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, your own shape and countenance, persons, substances, beasts, the trees, the running rivers, the rocks and sands.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All hold spiritual joys and afterwards loosen them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How can the real body ever die and be buried?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of your real body and any man’s or woman’s real body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Item for item it will elude the hands of the corpse-cleaners and pass to fitting spheres,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Carrying what has accrued to it from the moment of birth to the moment of death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not the types set up by the printer return their impression, the meaning, the main concern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Any more than a man’s substance and life or a woman’s substance and life return in the body and the soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indifferently before death and after death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold, the body includes and is the meaning, the main concern and includes and is the soul;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whoever you are, how superb and how divine is your body, or any part of it!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-14" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">14</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Whoever you are, to you endless announcements!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Daughter of the lands did you wait for your poet?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did you wait for one with a flowing mouth and indicative hand?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toward the male of the States, and toward the female of the States,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exulting words, words to Democracy’s lands.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Interlink’d, food-yielding lands!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of coal and iron! land of gold! land of cotton, sugar, rice!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of wheat, beef, pork! land of wool and hemp! land of the apple and the grape!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of the pastoral plains, the grass-fields of the world! land of those sweet-air’d interminable plateaus!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of the herd, the garden, the healthy house of adobie!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lands where the north-west Columbia winds, and where the south-west Colorado winds!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of the eastern Chesapeake! land of the Delaware!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of Ontario, Erie, Huron, Michigan!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of the Old Thirteen! Massachusetts land! land of Vermont and Connecticut!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of the ocean shores! land of sierras and peaks!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land of boatmen and sailors! fishermen’s land!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inextricable lands! the clutch’d together! the passionate ones!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The side by side! the elder and younger brothers! the bony-limb’d!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great women’s land! the feminine! the experienced sisters and the inexperienced sisters!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far breath’d land! Arctic braced! Mexican breez’d! the diverse! the compact!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Pennsylvanian! the Virginian! the double Carolinian!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O all and each well-loved by me! my intrepid nations! O I at any rate include you all with perfect love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot be discharged from you! not from one any sooner than another!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O death! O for all that, I am yet of you unseen this hour with irrepressible love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walking New England, a friend, a traveler,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splashing my bare feet in the edge of the summer ripples on Paumanok’s sands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crossing the prairies, dwelling again in Chicago, dwelling in every town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observing shows, births, improvements, structures, arts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listening to orators and oratresses in public halls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of and through the States as during life, each man and woman my neighbor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Louisianian, the Georgian, as near to me, and I as near to him and her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Mississippian and Arkansian yet with me, and I yet with any of them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet upon the plains west of the spinal river, yet in my house of adobie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet returning eastward, yet in the Seaside State or in Maryland,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Kanadian cheerily braving the winter, the snow and ice welcome to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet a true son either of Maine or of the Granite State, or the Narragansett Bay State, or the Empire State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet sailing to other shores to annex the same, yet welcoming every new brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hereby applying these leaves to the new ones from the hour they unite with the old ones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming among the new ones myself to be their companion and equal, coming personally to you now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enjoining you to acts, characters, spectacles, with me.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-15" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">15</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With me with firm holding, yet haste, haste on.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For your life adhere to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I may have to be persuaded many times before I consent to give myself really to you, but what of that?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must not Nature be persuaded many times?)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No dainty dolce affettuoso I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bearded, sun-burnt, gray-neck’d, forbidding, I have arrived,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be wrestled with as I pass for the solid prizes of the universe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For such I afford whoever can persevere to win them.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-16" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">16</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On my way a moment I pause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here for you! and here for America!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still the present I raise aloft, still the future of the States I harbinge glad and sublime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for the past I pronounce what the air holds of the red aborigines.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The red aborigines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving natural breaths, sounds of rain and winds, calls as of birds and animals in the woods, syllabled to us for names,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Okonee, Koosa, Ottawa, Monongahela, Sauk, Natchez, Chattahoochee, Kaqueta, Oronoco,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wabash, Miami, Saginaw, Chippewa, Oshkosh, Walla-Walla,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving such to the States they melt, they depart, charging the water and the land with names.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-17" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">17</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Expanding and swift, henceforth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elements, breeds, adjustments, turbulent, quick and audacious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A world primal again, vistas of glory incessant and branching,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A new race dominating previous ones and grander far, with new contests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New politics, new literatures and religions, new inventions and arts.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>These, my voice announcing⁠—I will sleep no more but arise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You oceans that have been calm within me! how I feel you, fathomless, stirring, preparing unprecedented waves and storms.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-18" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">18</h3>
				<p>
					<span>See, steamers steaming through my poems,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, in my poems immigrants continually coming and landing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, in arrière, the wigwam, the trail, the hunter’s hut, the flat-boat, the maize-leaf, the claim, the rude fence, and the backwoods village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, on the one side the Western Sea and on the other the Eastern Sea, how they advance and retreat upon my poems as upon their own shores,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, pastures and forests in my poems⁠—see, animals wild and tame⁠—see, beyond the Kaw, countless herds of buffalo feeding on short curly grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, in my poems, cities, solid, vast, inland, with paved streets, with iron and stone edifices, ceaseless vehicles, and commerce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, the many-cylinder’d steam printing-press⁠—see, the electric telegraph stretching across the continent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, through Atlantica’s depths pulses American Europe reaching, pulses of Europe duly return’d,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, the strong and quick locomotive as it departs, panting, blowing the steam-whistle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, ploughmen ploughing farms⁠—see, miners digging mines⁠—see, the numberless factories,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, mechanics busy at their benches with tools⁠—see from among them superior judges, philosophs, Presidents, emerge, drest in working dresses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See, lounging through the shops and fields of the States, me well-belov’d, close-held by day and night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear the loud echoes of my songs there⁠—read the hints come at last.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="starting-from-paumanok-19" epub:type="part">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal">19</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O camerado close! O you and me at last, and us two only.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O a word to clear one’s path ahead endlessly!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O something ecstatic and undemonstrable! O music wild!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O now I triumph⁠—and you shall also;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O hand in hand⁠—O wholesome pleasure⁠—O one more desirer and lover!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O to haste firm holding⁠—to haste, haste on with me.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
