<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Sleepers</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="the-sleepers" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Sleepers</h2>
			<article id="the-sleepers-article" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<section id="the-sleepers-1" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I wander all night in my vision,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stepping with light feet, swiftly and noiselessly stepping and stopping,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bending with open eyes over the shut eyes of sleepers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wandering and confused, lost to myself, ill-assorted, contradictory,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pausing, gazing, bending, and stopping.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>How solemn they look there, stretch’d and still,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How quiet they breathe, the little children in their cradles.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The wretched features of ennuyés, the white features of corpses, the livid faces of drunkards, the sick-gray faces of onanists,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gash’d bodies on battle-fields, the insane in their strong-door’d rooms, the sacred idiots, the new-born emerging from gates, and the dying emerging from gates,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The night pervades them and infolds them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The married couple sleep calmly in their bed, he with his palm on the hip of the wife, and she with her palm on the hip of the husband,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sisters sleep lovingly side by side in their bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The men sleep lovingly side by side in theirs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the mother sleeps with her little child carefully wrapt.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The blind sleep, and the deaf and dumb sleep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The prisoner sleeps well in the prison, the runaway son sleeps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The murderer that is to be hung next day, how does he sleep?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the murder’d person, how does he sleep?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The female that loves unrequited sleeps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the male that loves unrequited sleeps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The head of the money-maker that plotted all day sleeps,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the enraged and treacherous dispositions, all, all sleep.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I stand in the dark with drooping eyes by the worst-suffering and the most restless,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I pass my hands soothingly to and fro a few inches from them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The restless sink in their beds, they fitfully sleep.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Now I pierce the darkness, new beings appear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The earth recedes from me into the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw that it was beautiful, and I see that what is not the earth is beautiful.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I go from bedside to bedside, I sleep close with the other sleepers each in turn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I dream in my dream all the dreams of the other dreamers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I become the other dreamers.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I am a dance⁠—play up there! the fit is whirling me fast!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I am the ever-laughing⁠—it is new moon and twilight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the hiding of douceurs, I see nimble ghosts whichever way I look,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Cache and cache again deep in the ground and sea, and where it is neither ground nor sea.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Well do they do their jobs those journeymen divine,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only from me can they hide nothing, and would not if they could,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I reckon I am their boss and they make me a pet besides,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And surround me and lead me and run ahead when I walk,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To lift their cunning covers to signify me with stretch’d arms, and resume the way;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Onward we move, a gay gang of blackguards! with mirth-shouting music and wild-flapping pennants of joy!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I am the actor, the actress, the voter, the politician,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The emigrant and the exile, the criminal that stood in the box,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He who has been famous and he who shall be famous after to-day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stammerer, the well-formed person, the wasted or feeble person.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I am she who adorn’d herself and folded her hair expectantly,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My truant lover has come, and it is dark.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Double yourself and receive me darkness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Receive me and my lover too, he will not let me go without him.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I roll myself upon you as upon a bed, I resign myself to the dusk.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He whom I call answers me and takes the place of my lover,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He rises with me silently from the bed.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Darkness, you are gentler than my lover, his flesh was sweaty and panting,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I feel the hot moisture yet that he left me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>My hands are spread forth, I pass them in all directions,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I would sound up the shadowy shore to which you are journeying.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Be careful darkness! already what was it touch’d me?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I thought my lover had gone, else darkness and he are one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hear the heart-beat, I follow, I fade away.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-sleepers-2" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I descend my western course, my sinews are flaccid,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Perfume and youth course through me and I am their wake.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It is my face yellow and wrinkled instead of the old woman’s,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I sit low in a straw-bottom chair and carefully darn my grandson’s stockings.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It is I too, the sleepless widow looking out on the winter midnight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see the sparkles of starshine on the icy and pallid earth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A shroud I see and I am the shroud, I wrap a body and lie in the coffin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is dark here under ground, it is not evil or pain here, it is blank here, for reasons.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(It seems to me that everything in the light and air ought to be happy,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whoever is not in his coffin and the dark grave let him know he has enough.)</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-sleepers-3" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I see a beautiful gigantic swimmer swimming naked through the eddies of the sea,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His brown hair lies close and even to his head, he strikes out with courageous arms, he urges himself with his legs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see his white body, I see his undaunted eyes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hate the swift-running eddies that would dash him head-foremost on the rocks.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>What are you doing you ruffianly red-trickled waves?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Will you kill the courageous giant? will you kill him in the prime of his middle age?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Steady and long he struggles,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He is baffled, bang’d, bruis’d, he holds out while his strength holds out,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The slapping eddies are spotted with his blood, they bear him away, they roll him, swing him, turn him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His beautiful body is borne in the circling eddies, it is continually bruis’d on rocks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Swiftly and out of sight is borne the brave corpse.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-sleepers-4" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I turn but do not extricate myself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Confused, a past-reading, another, but with darkness yet.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The beach is cut by the razory ice-wind, the wreck-guns sound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The tempest lulls, the moon comes floundering through the drifts.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I look where the ship helplessly heads end on, I hear the burst as she strikes, I hear the howls of dismay, they grow fainter and fainter.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I cannot aid with my wringing fingers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I can but rush to the surf and let it drench me and freeze upon me.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I search with the crowd, not one of the company is wash’d to us alive,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the morning I help pick up the dead and lay them in rows in a barn.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-sleepers-5" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Now of the older war-days, the defeat at Brooklyn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Washington stands inside the lines, he stands on the intrench’d hills amid a crowd of officers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His face is cold and damp, he cannot repress the weeping drops,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He lifts the glass perpetually to his eyes, the color is blanch’d from his cheeks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He sees the slaughter of the southern braves confided to him by their parents.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The same at last and at last when peace is declared,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He stands in the room of the old tavern, the well-belov’d soldiers all pass through,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The officers speechless and slow draw near in their turns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The chief encircles their necks with his arm and kisses them on the cheek,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He kisses lightly the wet cheeks one after another, he shakes hands and bids goodbye to the army.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-sleepers-6" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Now what my mother told me one day as we sat at dinner together,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of when she was a nearly grown girl living home with her parents on the old homestead.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A red squaw came one breakfast-time to the old homestead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On her back she carried a bundle of rushes for rush-bottoming chairs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her hair, straight, shiny, coarse, black, profuse, half-envelop’d her face,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her step was free and elastic, and her voice sounded exquisitely as she spoke.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>My mother look’d in delight and amazement at the stranger,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She look’d at the freshness of her tall-borne face and full and pliant limbs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The more she look’d upon her she loved her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Never before had she seen such wonderful beauty and purity,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She made her sit on a bench by the jamb of the fireplace, she cook’d food for her,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She had no work to give her, but she gave her remembrance and fondness.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The red squaw staid all the forenoon, and toward the middle of the afternoon she went away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>O my mother was loth to have her go away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All the week she thought of her, she watch’d for her many a month,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She remember’d her many a winter and many a summer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the red squaw never came nor was heard of there again.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-sleepers-7" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">7</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A show of the summer softness⁠—a contact of something unseen⁠—an amour of the light and air,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am jealous and overwhelm’d with friendliness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And will go gallivant with the light and air myself.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>O love and summer, you are in the dreams and in me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Autumn and winter are in the dreams, the farmer goes with his thrift,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The droves and crops increase, the barns are well-fill’d.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Elements merge in the night, ships make tacks in the dreams,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sailor sails, the exile returns home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fugitive returns unharm’d, the immigrant is back beyond months and years,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The poor Irishman lives in the simple house of his childhood with the well-known neighbors and faces,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They warmly welcome him, he is barefoot again, he forgets he is well off,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Dutchman voyages home, and the Scotchman and Welshman voyage home, and the native of the Mediterranean voyages home,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To every port of England, France, Spain, enter well-fill’d ships,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Swiss foots it toward his hills, the Prussian goes his way, the Hungarian his way, and the Pole his way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Swede returns, and the Dane and Norwegian return.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The homeward bound and the outward bound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The beautiful lost swimmer, the ennuyé, the onanist, the female that loves unrequited, the money-maker,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The actor and actress, those through with their parts and those waiting to commence,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The affectionate boy, the husband and wife, the voter, the nominee that is chosen and the nominee that has fail’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The great already known and the great any time after to-day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stammerer, the sick, the perfect-form’d, the homely,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The criminal that stood in the box, the judge that sat and sentenced him, the fluent lawyers, the jury, the audience,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The laugher and weeper, the dancer, the midnight widow, the red squaw,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The consumptive, the erysipalite, the idiot, he that is wrong’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The antipodes, and every one between this and them in the dark,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I swear they are averaged now⁠—one is no better than the other,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The night and sleep have liken’d them and restored them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear they are all beautiful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Everyone that sleeps is beautiful, everything in the dim light is beautiful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The wildest and bloodiest is over, and all is peace.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Peace is always beautiful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The myth of heaven indicates peace and night.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The myth of heaven indicates the soul,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The soul is always beautiful, it appears more or it appears less, it comes or it lags behind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It comes from its embower’d garden and looks pleasantly on itself and encloses the world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Perfect and clean the genitals previously jetting, and perfect and clean the womb cohering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The head well-grown proportion’d and plumb, and the bowels and joints proportion’d and plumb.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The soul is always beautiful,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The universe is duly in order, everything is in its place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What has arrived is in its place and what waits shall be in its place,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The twisted skull waits, the watery or rotten blood waits,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The child of the glutton or venerealee waits long, and the child of the drunkard waits long, and the drunkard himself waits long,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sleepers that lived and died wait, the far advanced are to go on in their turns, and the far behind are to come on in their turns,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The diverse shall be no less diverse, but they shall flow and unite⁠—they unite now.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-sleepers-8" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">8</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The sleepers are very beautiful as they lie unclothed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They flow hand in hand over the whole earth from east to west as they lie unclothed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Asiatic and African are hand in hand, the European and American are hand in hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Learn’d and unlearn’d are hand in hand, and male and female are hand in hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bare arm of the girl crosses the bare breast of her lover, they press close without lust, his lips press her neck,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The father holds his grown or ungrown son in his arms with measureless love, and the son holds the father in his arms with measureless love,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The white hair of the mother shines on the white wrist of the daughter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The breath of the boy goes with the breath of the man, friend is inarm’d by friend,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The scholar kisses the teacher and the teacher kisses the scholar, the wrong’d is made right,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The call of the slave is one with the master’s call, and the master salutes the slave,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The felon steps forth from the prison, the insane becomes sane, the suffering of sick persons is reliev’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sweatings and fevers stop, the throat that was unsound is sound, the lungs of the consumptive are resumed, the poor distress’d head is free,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The joints of the rheumatic move as smoothly as ever, and smoother than ever,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stiflings and passages open, the paralyzed become supple,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The swell’d and convuls’d and congested awake to themselves in condition,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They pass the invigoration of the night and the chemistry of the night, and awake.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I too pass from the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I stay a while away O night, but I return to you again and love you.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Why should I be afraid to trust myself to you?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am not afraid, I have been well brought forward by you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I love the rich running day, but I do not desert her in whom I lay so long,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I know not how I came of you and I know not where I go with you, but I know I came well and shall go well.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I will stop only a time with the night, and rise betimes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will duly pass the day O my mother, and duly return to you.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="transpositions" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Transpositions</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Let the reformers descend from the stands where they are forever bawling⁠—let an idiot or insane person appear on each of the stands;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let judges and criminals be transposed⁠—let the prison-keepers be put in prison⁠—let those that were prisoners take the keys;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them that distrust birth and death lead the rest.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
