<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>To Think of Time</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="to-think-of-time" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Think of Time</h2>
			<article id="to-think-of-time" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<section id="to-think-of-time-1" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">1</h3>
					<p>
						<span>To think of time—of all that retrospection,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think of to-day, and the ages continued henceforward.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Have you guess’d you yourself would not continue?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have you dreaded these earth-beetles?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have you fear’d the future would be nothing to you?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Is to-day nothing? is the beginningless past nothing?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If the future is nothing they are just as surely nothing.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To think that the sun rose in the east—that men and women were flexible, real, alive—that every thing was alive,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think that you and I did not see, feel, think, nor bear our part,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think that we are now here and bear our part.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-2" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">2</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Not a day passes, not a minute or second without an accouchement,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not a day passes, not a minute or second without a corpse.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The dull nights go over and the dull days also,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The soreness of lying so much in bed goes over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The physician after long putting off gives the silent and terrible look for an answer,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The children come hurried and weeping, and the brothers and sisters are sent for,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Medicines stand unused on the shelf, (the camphor-smell has long pervaded the rooms,)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The faithful hand of the living does not desert the hand of the dying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The twitching lips press lightly on the forehead of the dying,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The breath ceases and the pulse of the heart ceases,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The corpse stretches on the bed and the living look upon it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is palpable as the living are palpable.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The living look upon the corpse with their eyesight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But without eyesight lingers a different living and looks curiously on the corpse.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-3" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">3</h3>
					<p>
						<span>To think the thought of death merged in the thought of materials,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think of all these wonders of city and country, and others taking great interest in them, and we taking no interest in them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To think how eager we are in building our houses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think others shall be just as eager, and we quite indifferent.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>(I see one building the house that serves him a few years, or seventy or eighty years at most,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I see one building the house that serves him longer than that.)</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Slow-moving and black lines creep over the whole earth—they never cease—they are the burial lines,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He that was President was buried, and he that is now President shall surely be buried.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-4" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">4</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A reminiscence of the vulgar fate,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A frequent sample of the life and death of workmen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each after his kind.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Cold dash of waves at the ferry-wharf, posh and ice in the river, half-frozen mud in the streets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A gray discouraged sky overhead, the short last daylight of December,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A hearse and stages, the funeral of an old Broadway stage-driver, the cortege mostly drivers.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Steady the trot to the cemetery, duly rattles the death-bell,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gate is pass’d, the new-dug grave is halted at, the living alight, the hearse uncloses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The coffin is pass’d out, lower’d and settled, the whip is laid on the coffin, the earth is swiftly shovel’d in,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The mound above is flatted with the spades—silence,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A minute—no one moves or speaks—it is done,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He is decently put away—is there any thing more?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>He was a good fellow, free-mouth’d, quick-temper’d, not bad-looking,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ready with life or death for a friend, fond of women, gambled, ate hearty, drank hearty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had known what it was to be flush, grew low-spirited toward the last, sicken’d, was help’d by a contribution,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Died, aged forty-one years—and that was his funeral.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Thumb extended, finger uplifted, apron, cape, gloves, strap, wet-weather clothes, whip carefully chosen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Boss, spotter, starter, hostler, somebody loafing on you, you loafing on somebody, headway, man before and man behind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Good day’s work, bad day’s work, pet stock, mean stock, first out, last out, turning-in at night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think that these are so much and so nigh to other drivers, and he there takes no interest in them.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-5" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">5</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The markets, the government, the working-man’s wages, to think what account they are through our nights and days,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think that other working-men will make just as great account of them, yet we make little or no account.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The vulgar and the refined, what you call sin and what you call goodness, to think how wide a difference,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think the difference will still continue to others, yet we lie beyond the difference.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>To think how much pleasure there is,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Do you enjoy yourself in the city? or engaged in business? or planning a nomination and election? or with your wife and family?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or with your mother and sisters? or in womanly housework? or the beautiful maternal cares?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These also flow onward to others, you and I flow onward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in due time you and I shall take less interest in them.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Your farm, profits, crops—to think how engross’d you are,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To think there will still be farms, profits, crops, yet for you of what avail?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-6" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">6</h3>
					<p>
						<span>What will be will be well, for what is is well,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To take interest is well, and not to take interest shall be well.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The domestic joys, the daily housework or business, the building of houses, are not phantasms, they have weight, form, location,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Farms, profits, crops, markets, wages, government, are none of them phantasms,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The difference between sin and goodness is no delusion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The earth is not an echo, man and his life and all the things of his life are well-consider’d.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>You are not thrown to the winds, you gather certainly and safely around yourself,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yourself! yourself! yourself, for ever and ever!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-7" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">7</h3>
					<p>
						<span>It is not to diffuse you that you were born of your mother and father, it is to identify you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is not that you should be undecided, but that you should be decided,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Something long preparing and formless is arrived and form’d in you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You are henceforth secure, whatever comes or goes.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The threads that were spun are gather’d, the weft crosses the warp, the pattern is systematic.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The preparations have every one been justified,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The orchestra have sufficiently tuned their instruments, the baton has given the signal.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The guest that was coming, he waited long, he is now housed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He is one of those who are beautiful and happy, he is one of those that to look upon and be with is enough.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The law of the past cannot be eluded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The law of the present and future cannot be eluded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The law of the living cannot be eluded, it is eternal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The law of promotion and transformation cannot be eluded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The law of heroes and good-doers cannot be eluded,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The law of drunkards, informers, mean persons, not one iota thereof can be eluded.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-8" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">8</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Slow moving and black lines go ceaselessly over the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Northerner goes carried and Southerner goes carried, and they on the Atlantic side and they on the Pacific,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And they between, and all through the Mississippi country, and all over the earth.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The great masters and kosmos are well as they go, the heroes and good-doers are well,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The known leaders and inventors and the rich owners and pious and distinguish’d may be well,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But there is more account than that, there is strict account of all.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The interminable hordes of the ignorant and wicked are not nothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The barbarians of Africa and Asia are not nothing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The perpetual successions of shallow people are not nothing as they go.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Of and in all these things,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have dream’d that we are not to be changed so much, nor the law of us changed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have dream’d that heroes and good-doers shall be under the present and past law,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that murderers, drunkards, liars, shall be under the present and past law,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For I have dream’d that the law they are under now is enough.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And I have dream’d that the purpose and essence of the known life, the transient,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is to form and decide identity for the unknown life, the permanent.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>If all came but to ashes of dung,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If maggots and rats ended us, then Alarum! for we are betray’d,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then indeed suspicion of death.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Do you suspect death? if I were to suspect death I should die now,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Do you think I could walk pleasantly and well-suited toward annihilation?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Pleasantly and well-suited I walk,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whither I walk I cannot define, but I know it is good,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The whole universe indicates that it is good,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The past and the present indicate that it is good.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>How beautiful and perfect are the animals!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How perfect the earth, and the minutest thing upon it!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What is called good is perfect, and what is called bad is just as perfect,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The vegetables and minerals are all perfect, and the imponderable fluids perfect;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slowly and surely they have pass’d on to this, and slowly and surely they yet pass on.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="to-think-of-time-9" epub:type="part">
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal">9</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I swear I think now that every thing without exception has an eternal soul!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The trees have, rooted in the ground! the weeds of the sea have! the animals!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I swear I think there is nothing but immortality!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That the exquisite scheme is for it, and the nebulous float is for it, and the cohering is for it!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all preparation is for it—and identity is for it—and life and materials are altogether for it!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
